# /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow (T1003.008)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to dump the contents of ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow``` to enable offline password cracking. Most modern Linux operating systems use a combination of ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow``` to store user account information, including password hashes in ```/etc/shadow```. By default, ```/etc/shadow``` is only readable by the root user.

Linux stores user information such as user ID, group ID, home directory path, and login shell in ```/etc/passwd```. A "user" on the system may belong to a person or a service. All password hashes are stored in ```/etc/shadow``` - including entries for users with no passwords and users with locked or disabled accounts.

Adversaries may attempt to read or dump the ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow``` files on Linux systems via command line utilities such as the ```cat``` command. Additionally, the Linux utility ```unshadow``` can be used to combine the two files in a format suited for password cracking utilities such as John the Ripper - for example, via the command ```/usr/bin/unshadow /etc/passwd /etc/shadow > /tmp/crack.password.db```. Since the user information stored in ```/etc/passwd``` are linked to the password hashes in ```/etc/shadow```, an adversary would need to have access to both.

## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes attempting to access ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow```, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for files being accessed that may attempt to dump the contents of ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow``` to enable offline password cracking. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes attempting to access ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow```, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow.

``` index=os sourcetype="linux_audit" file IN ("/etc/passwd", "/etc/shadow") ```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to dump the contents of ```/etc/passwd``` and ```/etc/shadow``` to enable offline password cracking.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected command execution involving /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow.

``` index=os sourcetype="linux_audit" command IN ("cat /etc/passwd", "cat /etc/shadow", "grep /etc/passwd", "grep /etc/shadow") | eval Command=command | eval TargetFile=case(match(Command, ".*passwd.*"), "/etc/passwd", match(Command, ".*shadow.*"), "/etc/shadow")```

