# Data from Local System (T1005)

## Description
Adversaries may search local system sources, such as file systems, configuration files, local databases, or virtual machine files, to find files of interest and sensitive data prior to Exfiltration.

Adversaries may do this using a Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059), such as cmd as well as a Network Device CLI (T1059.008), which have functionality to interact with the file system to gather information. Adversaries may also use Automated Collection (T1119) on the local system.


## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Related Groups
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- APT39 (G0087)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Axiom (G0001)
- OilRig (G0049)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Windigo (G0124)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Andariel (G0138)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- APT1 (G0006)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Agrius (G1030)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Turla (G0010)
- APT41 (G0096)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- CURIUM (G1012)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Inception (G0100)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- FIN13 (G1016)

## Mitigations
- Data Loss Prevention (M1057)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to collect files from a system. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather data. Further, Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands may also be used to collect files such as configuration files with built-in features native to the network device platform. Monitor CLI activity for unexpected or unauthorized use commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations. Data may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor `show` commands that view configuration files. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may search local system sources, such as file systems or local databases, to find files of interest and sensitive data prior to Exfiltration. 

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.  Data may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may search and collect local system sources, such as file systems or local databases, to find files of interest and sensitive data prior to Exfiltration. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather data. Data may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may search local system sources, such as file systems or local databases, to find files of interest and sensitive data prior to Exfiltration.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected/abnormal access to files that may be malicious collection of local data, such as user files (`pdf`, `.docx`, `.jpg`, etc.) or local databases. On ESXi servers, this may include `.vmdk` and `.vmsn` files in the `/vmfs/volumes` directory. 

