# NTDS (T1003.003)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to access or create a copy of the Active Directory domain database in order to steal credential information, as well as obtain other information about domain members such as devices, users, and access rights. By default, the NTDS file (NTDS.dit) is located in ```%SystemRoot%\NTDS\Ntds.dit``` of a domain controller.

In addition to looking for NTDS files on active Domain Controllers, adversaries may search for backups that contain the same or similar information.

The following tools and techniques can be used to enumerate the NTDS file and the contents of the entire Active Directory hashes.

* Volume Shadow Copy
* secretsdump.py
* Using the in-built Windows tool, ntdsutil.exe
* Invoke-NinjaCopy


## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- APT28 (G0007)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Training (M1017)
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for program execution that may be indicative of credential dumping, especially attempts to access or copy the NTDS.dit.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to access or create a copy of the Active Directory domain database in order to steal credential information, as well as obtain other information about domain members such as devices, users, and access rights. Look for command-lines that invoke attempts to access or copy the NTDS.dit.

Note: Events 4688 (Microsoft Windows Security Auditing) and 1 (Microsoft Windows Sysmon) provide context of commands and parameters being executed via creation of a new process. Event 800 (PowerShell) provides context of commands and parameters being executed via PowerShell. This detection is based on known Windows utilities commands and parameters that can be used to copy the ntds.dit file. It is recommended to keep the list of commands and parameters up to date.

Analytic 1 - Command line attempt to access or create a copy of ntds.dit file

```((sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational"  EventCode="800") AND
((CommandLine LIKE "%ntds%" AND CommandLine LIKE "%ntdsutil%" AND CommandLine LIKE "%create%") OR (CommandLine LIKE "%vssadmin%" AND CommandLine LIKE "%create%" AND CommandLine LIKE "%shadow%") OR (CommandLine LIKE "%copy%" AND CommandLine LIKE "%ntds.dit%")))```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for access or copy of the NTDS.dit.

Note: Events 4656 and 4663 (Microsoft Windows Security Auditing) provide context of processes and users requesting access or accessing file objects (ObjectType = File) such as C:\Windows\NTDS\ntds.dit. It is important to note that, in order to generate these events, a System Access Control List (SACL) must be defined for the ntds.dit file. Access rights that allow read operations on file objects and its attributes are %%4416 Read file data, %%4419 Read extended file attributes, %%4423 Read file attributes. If you search for just the name of the file and not the entire directory, you may get access events related to the ntds.dit file within a snapshot or volume shadow copy. 

Events 4656 and 4663 (Microsoft Windows Security Auditing) provide context of processes and users creating or copying file objects (ObjectType = File) such as C:\Windows\NTDS\ntds.dit. It is important to note that, in order to generate these events, a System Access Control List (SACL) must be defined for the ntds.dit file. In order to filter file creation events, filter access rigths %%4417 Write data to the file and %%4424 Write file attributes.

Event 11 (Microsoft Windows Sysmon) provide context of processes and users creating or copying files. Unfortunately, this event provides context of the file being created or copied, but not the file being copied. A good starting point would be to look for new files created or copied with extension .dit.

Analytic 1 - Active Directory Dumping via NTDSUtil

```(sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security EventCode IN (4656, 4663)) OR (sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode="11") AND
ObjectType="File" AND TargetFilename="*ntds.dit" AND (AccessList="%%4416" OR AccessList="%%4419" OR AccessList="%%4417" OR AccessList="%%4424")```

