# Direct Volume Access (T1006)

## Description
Adversaries may directly access a volume to bypass file access controls and file system monitoring. Windows allows programs to have direct access to logical volumes. Programs with direct access may read and write files directly from the drive by analyzing file system data structures. This technique may bypass Windows file access controls as well as file system monitoring tools. 

Utilities, such as `NinjaCopy`, exist to perform these actions in PowerShell. Adversaries may also use built-in or third-party utilities (such as `vssadmin`, `wbadmin`, and esentutl) to create shadow copies or backups of data from system volumes.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor handle opens on drive volumes that are made by processes to determine when they may directly access logical drives. 

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to copy files from the logical drive and evade common file system protections. Since this technique may also be used through PowerShell (T1059.001), additional logging of PowerShell scripts is recommended.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for the creation of volume shadow copy and backup files, especially unexpected and irregular activity (relative to time, user, etc.).

#### Drive: Drive Access (DS0016): 
Monitor handle opens on volumes that are made by processes to determine when they may be directly collecting data from logical drives. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that could be taken to copy files from the logical drive and evade common file system protections. Since this technique may also be used through PowerShell (T1059.001), additional logging of PowerShell scripts is recommended.

