# DCSync (T1003.006)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to access credentials and other sensitive information by abusing a Windows Domain Controller's application programming interface (API)    to simulate the replication process from a remote domain controller using a technique called DCSync.

Members of the Administrators, Domain Admins, and Enterprise Admin groups or computer accounts on the domain controller are able to run DCSync to pull password data from Active Directory, which may include current and historical hashes of potentially useful accounts such as KRBTGT and Administrators. The hashes can then in turn be used to create a Golden Ticket (T1558.001) for use in Pass the Ticket (T1550.003) or change an account's password as noted in Account Manipulation (T1098).

DCSync functionality has been included in the "lsadump" module in Mimikatz. Lsadump also includes NetSync, which performs DCSync over a legacy replication protocol.

## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity possibly associated with DCSync.   Also monitor for network protocols  and other replication requests from IPs not associated with known domain controllers.

Note: Domain controllers may not log replication requests originating from the default domain controller account.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Access (DS0026): 
Monitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity possibly associated with DCSync.   Note: Domain controllers may not log replication requests originating from the default domain controller account.

Analytic 1 - Monitor for replication requests from IPs not associated with known domain controllers.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4662 AccessMask=0x100 guid IN ("1131f6ad-9c07-11d1-f79f-00c04fc2dcd2", "1131f6aa-9c07-11d1-f79f-00c04fc2dcd2", "9923a32a-3607-11d2-b9be-0000f87a36b2", "89e95b76-444d-4c62-991a-0facbeda640c") ```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

