# OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password. Credentials can be obtained from OS caches, memory, or structures. Credentials can then be used to perform Lateral Movement (TA0008) and access restricted information.

Several of the tools mentioned in associated sub-techniques may be used by both adversaries and professional security testers. Additional custom tools likely exist as well.


## Sub-techniques
- Security Account Manager (T1003.002)
- LSA Secrets (T1003.004)
- Proc Filesystem (T1003.007)
- LSASS Memory (T1003.001)
- Cached Domain Credentials (T1003.005)
- /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow (T1003.008)
- NTDS (T1003.003)
- DCSync (T1003.006)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Poseidon Group (G0033)
- Tonto Team (G0131)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Suckfly (G0039)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Sowbug (G0054)
- Axiom (G0001)
- Leviathan (G0065)

## Mitigations
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Password Policies (M1027)
- User Training (M1017)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Privileged Process Integrity (M1025)
- Credential Access Protection (M1043)
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection
### Windows
Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with lsass.exe. Common credential dumpers such as Mimikatz access the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) process by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details are stored. Credential dumpers may also use methods for reflective Process Injection (T1055) to reduce potential indicators of malicious activity.

Hash dumpers open the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on the local file system (%SystemRoot%/system32/config/SAM) or create a dump of the Registry SAM key to access stored account password hashes. Some hash dumpers will open the local file system as a device and parse to the SAM table to avoid file access defenses. Others will make an in-memory copy of the SAM table before reading hashes. Detection of compromised Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well. 

On Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, monitor Windows Logs for LSASS.exe creation to verify that LSASS started as a protected process.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for program execution that may be indicative of credential dumping. Remote access tools may contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell (T1059.001) scripts also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-Mimikatz module,  which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

Monitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity possibly associated with DCSync.    Note: Domain controllers may not log replication requests originating from the default domain controller account. . Also monitor for network protocols    and other replication requests  from IPs not associated with known domain controllers. 

### Linux
To obtain the passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps file in the `/proc` filesystem for the process being analyzed. This file is stored under the path `/proc/<pid>/maps`, where the `<pid>` directory is the unique pid of the program being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this file in the proc file system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor for network protocols    and other replication requests  from IPs not associated with known domain controllers. 

Analytic 1 - Anomalous network traffic content related to credential managers 

```index=network sourcetype="stream:tcp" dest_port=389 NOT [| inputlookup known_dc_ip_addresses | fields ip]
| eval SourceIP = src_ip, DestinationIP = dest_ip, Protocol = proto
| search (content="LDAPSearchRequest") OR (content="LDAPModifyRequest") OR (content="bindRequest") OR (content="searchResEntry") OR (content="NTDS.dit")```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may be indicative of credential dumping.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected process creation related to credential dumping.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688 Image="*procdump.exe" CommandLine IN ("* -ma lsass*"))
OR 
(index=security sourcetype="linux_secure" (key="cmdline" value IN ("*procdump* -ma /proc/$(pgrep lsass)")) (key="exe" value="*procdump"))
OR
(index=security sourcetype="macOS:UnifiedLog" process="*procdump" command="* -ma /proc/$(pgrep lsass)")```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

Analytic 1 - Unusual network communication patterns.

``` index=network sourcetype="stream:tcp" dest_port=389 NOT [| inputlookup known_dc_ip_addresses | fields ip] ```

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for the unexpected creation of memory dump files for processes that may contain credentials.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected memory dump file creation.

```(index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName IN ("*lsass*.dmp", "*\\config\\SAM", "*\\ntds.dit", "*\\policy\\secrets", "*\\cache"))
OR 
(index=security sourcetype="linux_secure" (key="path" value IN ("/etc/passwd", "/etc/shadow")))
OR 
(index=security sourcetype="macOS:UnifiedLog" message IN ("/var/db/shadow/hash/*", "/private/etc/master.passwd"))```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Access (DS0024): 
Monitor for the SAM registry key being accessed that may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized registry access to SAM key.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName="*\\SAM" | where ProcessName IN ("mimikatz.exe", "procdump.exe", "reg.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmic.exe", "schtasks.exe", "cmd.exe") ```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor file accesses that may indicate attempts to dump credential data from various storage locations such as LSASS memory, SAM, NTDS.dit, LSA secrets, cached domain credentials, proc filesystem, /etc/passwd, and /etc/shadow.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to credential storage files.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName IN ("*\\config\\SAM", "*\\ntds.dit", "*\\policy\\secrets", "*\\cache"))
OR 
(index=security sourcetype="auditd" (key="path" (value IN ("/etc/passwd", "/etc/shadow")) OR key="proctitle" value IN ("*cat*", "*strings*", "*grep*", "*awk*", "*cut*", "*sed*", "*sort*", "*uniq*", "*head*", "*tail*", "*less*", "*more*")))
OR
(index=security sourcetype="macOS:UnifiedLog" (process IN ("cat", "grep", "awk", "cut", "sed", "sort", "uniq", "head", "tail", "less", "more") OR message IN ("/etc/passwd", "/etc/shadow", "/var/db/shadow/hash/*", "/private/etc/master.passwd")))```

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with lsass.exe. Common credential dumpers such as Mimikatz access the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) process by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details are stored. Credential dumpers may also use methods for reflective Process Injection (T1055) to reduce potential indicators of malicious activity.
##### Linux
To obtain the passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps file in the /proc filesystem for the process being analyzed. This file is stored under the path ```/proc/&lt;pid&gt;/maps```, where the ```&lt;pid&gt;``` directory is the unique pid of the program being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this file in the proc file system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to credential managers.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=10 TargetImage="*lsass.exe" SourceImage IN ("*mimikatz.exe", "*procdump.exe"))
OR 
(index=security sourcetype="linux_secure" (key="path" value IN ("/etc/passwd", "/etc/shadow")) (key="cmdline" value IN ("*mimikatz*", "*procdump*")))
OR
(index=security sourcetype="macOS:UnifiedLog" message IN ("/var/db/shadow/hash/*", "/private/etc/master.passwd") process IN ("mimikatz", "procdump"))```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to dump credentials using tools like Mimikatz, ProcDump, NTDSUtil, or accessing /proc, /etc/passwd, and /etc/shadow. 

Analytic 1 - Suspicious command execution involving credential dumping tools.
```(index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688 Image IN ("*mimikatz.exe", "*procdump.exe", "*ntdsutil.exe", "*powershell.exe") CommandLine IN ("*Invoke-Mimikatz*", "*Invoke-CachedCredentials*", "*Invoke-LSADump*", "*Invoke-SAMDump*"))
OR
(index=security sourcetype="linux_secure" Command IN ("cat /etc/passwd", "cat /etc/shadow", "grep -E '^[0-9a-f-]* r' /proc/*/maps"))
OR
(index=security sourcetype="macOS:UnifiedLog" process IN ("cat", "grep") message IN ("/etc/passwd", "/etc/shadow", "/var/db/shadow/hash/*", "/private/etc/master.passwd"))```

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Access (DS0026): 
Monitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity possibly associated with DCSync.    Note: Domain controllers may not log replication requests originating from the default domain controller account. . Monitor for replication requests  from IPs not associated with known domain controllers. 

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Replication Requests

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security EventCode="4662" AND AccessMask= "0x100" AND (guid= “1131f6ad-9c07-11d1-f79f-00c04fc2dcd2” OR guid= “1131f6aa-9c07-11d1-f79f-00c04fc2dcd2” OR guid= “9923a32a-3607-11d2-b9be-0000f87a36b2” OR guid= “89e95b76-444d-4c62-991a-0facbeda640c“) ```

