# Proc Filesystem (T1003.007)

## Description
Adversaries may gather credentials from the proc filesystem or `/proc`. The proc filesystem is a pseudo-filesystem used as an interface to kernel data structures for Linux based systems managing virtual memory. For each process, the `/proc/<PID>/maps` file shows how memory is mapped within the process’s virtual address space. And `/proc/<PID>/mem`, exposed for debugging purposes, provides access to the process’s virtual address space.

When executing with root privileges, adversaries can search these memory locations for all processes on a system that contain patterns indicative of credentials. Adversaries may use regex patterns, such as ```grep -E "^[0-9a-f-]* r" /proc/"$pid"/maps | cut -d' ' -f 1```, to look for fixed strings in memory structures or cached hashes. When running without privileged access, processes can still view their own virtual memory locations. Some services or programs may save credentials in clear text inside the process’s memory.

If running as or with the permissions of a web browser, a process can search the `/maps` & `/mem` locations for common website credential patterns (that can also be used to find adjacent memory within the same structure) in which hashes or cleartext credentials may be located.

## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
To obtain the passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps file in the `/proc` filesystem for the process being analyzed. This file is stored under the path `/proc/PID/maps`, where the `PID` directory is the unique pid of the program being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this file in the proc file system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may gather credentials from information stored in the Proc filesystem or ```/proc```. For instance, adversaries may use regex patterns to search for process memory that may be exfiltrated or searched for credentials.

```grep -E "^[0-9a-f-]* r" /proc/"$pid"/maps | grep -E 'heap|stack' | cut -d' ' -f 1```

```grep -E "^[0-9a-f-]* r" /proc/"$PID"/maps | grep heap | cut -d' ' -f 1```

Analytic 1 - Unexpected access to /proc filesystem.

``` index=os sourcetype="linux_audit" command IN ("grep -E '^[0-9a-f-]* r' /proc/*/maps", "cat /proc/*/maps", "awk '{print $1}' /proc/*/maps") ```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected access to passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps file in the /proc filesystem for the process being analyzed. This file is stored under the path ```/proc/\/maps```, where the ```\``` directory is the unique pid of the program being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this file in the proc file system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to /proc filesystem.

``` index=os sourcetype="linux_audit" command IN ("grep -E '^[0-9a-f-]* r' /proc/*/maps")```

