# Cached Domain Credentials (T1003.005)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to access cached domain credentials used to allow authentication to occur in the event a domain controller is unavailable.

On Windows Vista and newer, the hash format is DCC2 (Domain Cached Credentials version 2) hash, also known as MS-Cache v2 hash. The number of default cached credentials varies and can be altered per system. This hash does not allow pass-the-hash style attacks, and instead requires Password Cracking (T1110.002) to recover the plaintext password.

On Linux systems, Active Directory credentials can be accessed through caches maintained by software like System Security Services Daemon (SSSD) or Quest Authentication Services (formerly VAS). Cached credential hashes are typically located at `/var/lib/sss/db/cache.[domain].ldb` for SSSD or `/var/opt/quest/vas/authcache/vas_auth.vdb` for Quest. Adversaries can use utilities, such as `tdbdump`, on these database files to dump the cached hashes and use Password Cracking (T1110.002) to obtain the plaintext password. 

With SYSTEM or sudo access, the tools/utilities such as Mimikatz, Reg, and secretsdump.py for Windows or Linikatz for Linux can be used to extract the cached credentials.

Note: Cached credentials for Windows Vista are derived using PBKDF2.

## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- APT33 (G0064)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- OilRig (G0049)
- MuddyWater (G0069)

## Mitigations
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- User Training (M1017)
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for program execution that may be indicative of credential dumping. Remote access tools may contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell scripts also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-Mimikatz module, which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

Detection of compromised Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to access cached domain credentials used to allow authentication to occur in the event a domain controller is unavailable.. Remote access tools may contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell scripts also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-Mimikatz module, which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.
Detection of compromised Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well.

Analytic 1 - Unusual access to cached domain credentials.

``` (index=security sourcetype="Powershell" EventCode=4104 Image="*powershell.exe" CommandLine IN ("*Invoke-Mimikatz*", "*Invoke-CachedCredentials*"))
OR
(index=security sourcetype="linux_secure" (cmd IN ("*mimikatz*", "*cachedump*"))) ```

