# Security Account Manager (T1003.002)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to extract credential material from the Security Account Manager (SAM) database either through in-memory techniques or through the Windows Registry where the SAM database is stored. The SAM is a database file that contains local accounts for the host, typically those found with the ```net user``` command. Enumerating the SAM database requires SYSTEM level access.

A number of tools can be used to retrieve the SAM file through in-memory techniques:

* pwdumpx.exe
* gsecdump
* Mimikatz
* secretsdump.py

Alternatively, the SAM can be extracted from the Registry with Reg:

* ```reg save HKLM\sam sam```
* ```reg save HKLM\system system```

Creddump7 can then be used to process the SAM database locally to retrieve hashes.

Notes: 

* RID 500 account is the local, built-in administrator.
* RID 501 is the guest account.
* User accounts start with a RID of 1,000+.


## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- APT29 (G0016)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Agrius (G1030)
- APT41 (G0096)
- APT5 (G1023)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Ember Bear (G1003)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection
Hash dumpers open the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on the local file system (```%SystemRoot%/system32/config/SAM```) or create a dump of the Registry SAM key to access stored account password hashes. Some hash dumpers will open the local file system as a device and parse to the SAM table to avoid file access defenses. Others will make an in-memory copy of the SAM table before reading hashes. Detection of compromised Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to extract credential material from the Security Account Manager (SAM) database either through in-memory techniques or through the Windows Registry where the SAM database is stored.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized attempts to dump SAM database through command execution.

``` index=security sourcetype="Powershell" EventCode=4104 Image="*powershell.exe" CommandLine IN ("*Invoke-Mimikatz*", "*Invoke-SAMDump*", "*reg save hklm\\sam*", "*reg.exe save hklm\\sam*")```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for hash dumpers opening the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on the local file system (```%SystemRoot%/system32/config/SAM```). Some hash dumpers will open the local file system as a device and parse to the SAM table to avoid file access defenses. Others will make an in-memory copy of the SAM table before reading hashes. Detection of compromised Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to SAM database.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName="*\\config\\SAM" | where ProcessName IN ("reg.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmic.exe", "schtasks.exe", "cmd.exe", "rundll32.exe", "mimikatz.exe", "procdump.exe")```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Access (DS0024): 
Monitor for the SAM registry key dump being created to access stored account password hashes. Some hash dumpers will open the local file system as a device and parse to the SAM table to avoid file access defenses. Others will make an in-memory copy of the SAM table before reading hashes. Detection of compromised Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized registry access to SAM key.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName="*\\SAM" | where ProcessName IN ("reg.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmic.exe", "schtasks.exe", "cmd.exe", "rundll32.exe", "mimikatz.exe", "procdump.exe") ```

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor newly constructed files being written with default names that have extracted credentials from the Security Account Manager.

Analytic 1 - Creation of files with extracted SAM credentials.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName IN ("*\\config\\SAM", "*\\config\\system", "*\\config\\security", "*\\system32\\config\\sam", "*\\system32\\config\\system", "*\\system32\\config\\security") | where ProcessName IN ("reg.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmic.exe", "schtasks.exe", "cmd.exe", "rundll32.exe", "mimikatz.exe", "procdump.exe") ```

