# Fallback Channels (T1008)

## Description
Adversaries may use fallback or alternate communication channels if the primary channel is compromised or inaccessible in order to maintain reliable command and control and to avoid data transfer thresholds.

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- OilRig (G0049)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- FIN7 (G0046)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)

## Detection
Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows, such as unexpected surges or other abnormal inbound/outbound patterns.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that may use fallback or alternate communication channels if the primary channel is compromised or inaccessible in order to maintain reliable command and control and to avoid data transfer thresholds. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before may be suspicious.

Note: Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert on TCP network connection creation. The below analytic is using an event ID from OSQuery. 

