# LSASS Memory (T1003.001)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to access credential material stored in the process memory of the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS). After a user logs on, the system generates and stores a variety of credential materials in LSASS process memory. These credential materials can be harvested by an administrative user or SYSTEM and used to conduct Lateral Movement (TA0008) using Use Alternate Authentication Material (T1550).

As well as in-memory techniques, the LSASS process memory can be dumped from the target host and analyzed on a local system.

For example, on the target host use procdump:

* ```procdump -ma lsass.exe lsass_dump```

Locally, mimikatz can be run using:

* ```sekurlsa::Minidump lsassdump.dmp```
* ```sekurlsa::logonPasswords```

Built-in Windows tools such as `comsvcs.dll` can also be used:

* ```rundll32.exe C:\Windows\System32\comsvcs.dll MiniDump PID  lsass.dmp full```

Similar to Image File Execution Options Injection (T1546.012), the silent process exit mechanism can be abused to create a memory dump of `lsass.exe` through Windows Error Reporting (`WerFault.exe`).

Windows Security Support Provider (SSP) DLLs are loaded into LSASS process at system start. Once loaded into the LSA, SSP DLLs have access to encrypted and plaintext passwords that are stored in Windows, such as any logged-on user's Domain password or smart card PINs. The SSP configuration is stored in two Registry keys: ```HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\Security Packages``` and ```HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\OSConfig\Security Packages```. An adversary may modify these Registry keys to add new SSPs, which will be loaded the next time the system boots, or when the AddSecurityPackage Windows API function is called.

The following SSPs can be used to access credentials:

* Msv: Interactive logons, batch logons, and service logons are done through the MSV authentication package.
* Wdigest: The Digest Authentication protocol is designed for use with Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and Simple Authentication Security Layer (SASL) exchanges.
* Kerberos: Preferred for mutual client-server domain authentication in Windows 2000 and later.
* CredSSP:  Provides SSO and Network Level Authentication for Remote Desktop Services.


## Parent Technique
- OS Credential Dumping (T1003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Cleaver (G0003)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- APT1 (G0006)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Whitefly (G0107)
- APT33 (G0064)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Agrius (G1030)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- APT5 (G1023)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- PLATINUM (G0068)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Silence (G0091)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- APT3 (G0022)
- APT41 (G0096)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Play (G1040)
- RedCurl (G1039)

## Mitigations
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Credential Access Protection (M1043)
- Privileged Process Integrity (M1025)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Training (M1017)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with LSASS.exe. Common credential dumpers such as Mimikatz access LSASS.exe by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details are stored. Credential dumpers may also use methods for reflective Process Injection (T1055) to reduce potential indicators of malicious activity.

On Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, monitor Windows Logs for LSASS.exe creation to verify that LSASS started as a protected process.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for program execution that may be indicative of credential dumping. Remote access tools may contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell scripts also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-Mimikatz module, which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with LSASS.exe. Common credential dumpers such as Mimikatz access LSASS.exe by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details are stored. Credential dumpers may also use methods for reflective Process Injection (T1055) to reduce potential indicators of malicious activity.

Usage of Procdump and Windows Task Manager for LSASS dumping can also be detected via process creation events, since they both have a predictable set of command-line arguments (i.e., for specifying the process to be dumped). 

Note: Sysmon process access events (Event ID 10) can be extremely noisy, which necessitates tweaking the Sysmon configuration file. We recommend taking an approach analogous to that of the Sysmon Modular Configuration project (https://github.com/olafhartong/sysmon-modular) and filtering out any benign processes in your environment that produce large volumes of process access events. 

The GrantedAccess value in the below analytic for Mimikatz is meant to be used solely as an illustrative example of detecting Mimikatz LSASS access. However, actual GrantedAccess values change over time with different versions of Mimikatz and therefore detection engineers need to verify the accuracy of any GrantedAccess values that their analytics are using. 

Analytic 1 - Mimikatz

```(sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode="10" AND TargetImage= "*lsass.exe" AND (GrantedAccess=0x1410 OR GrantedAccess=0x1010 OR GrantedAccess=0x1438 OR GrantedAccess=0x143a OR GrantedAccess=0x1418)
CallTrace="C:\\windows\\SYSTEM32\\ntdll.dll+*|C:\\windows\\System32\\KERNELBASE.dll+20edd|UNKNOWN(*)")```

Analytic 2 - Suspicious process access to LSASS memory.

```((sourceType=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode="10") AND TargetImage= "*lsass.exe" AND SourceImage IN ("*mimikatz.exe", "*procdump.exe", "*rundll32.exe", "*taskmgr.exe", "*powershell.exe")```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes to Registry entries associated with credential access that is stored in the process memory of the LSASS. For example, the adversary can modify the SAM and SYSTEM files.

Analytics 1 - Unauthorized registry modifications related to LSASS.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName IN ("*\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Services\\*", "*\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Control\\SecurityProviders\\WDigest", "*\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Control\\Lsa\\Kerberos", "*\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Control\\Lsa\\MSV1_0") | where ProcessName IN ("reg.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmic.exe", "schtasks.exe", "cmd.exe", "rundll32.exe") ```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may be indicative of credential dumping. On Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, monitor Windows Logs for LSASS.exe creation to verify that LSASS started as a protected process. Try monitoring for Sysmon Event ID 1 and/or Windows Security Event ID 4688 for process activity. 

Note: 
- Rundll32/MiniDump has a different command-line syntax than that of Procdump, in that the process being dumped is specified via process ID instead of name (as with Procdump). Therefore, because the LSASS process ID is non-deterministic, the MiniDump detection isn’t specific to LSASS dumping and may need to be tuned to help reduce false positives.
- When monitoring for .dll  functions on the command-line be sure to also check for the ordinal associated with the function.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected process creation related to LSASS memory dumping.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688 Image IN ("*procdump.exe", "*rundll32.exe", "*taskmgr.exe", "*powershell.exe") CommandLine IN ("* -ma lsass*", "*rundll32.exe* comsvcs.dll, MiniDump", "*taskmgr.exe* /dump", "*powershell.exe* -Command Get-Process lsass | Out-MemoryDump")```


#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to access credential material stored in the process memory of the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS). OS API calls associated with LSASS process dumping include ```OpenProcess``` and ```MiniDumpWriteDump```. Execution of these functions might trigger security log ids such as 4663 (Microsoft Security Auditing) and 10 (Microsoft Sysmon)


Note: Most EDR tools do not support direct monitoring of API calls due to the sheer volume of calls produced by an endpoint but may have alerts or events that are based on abstractions of OS API calls. Dynamic malware analysis tools (i.e., sandboxes) can be used to trace the execution, including OS API calls, for a single PE binary. 

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for newly constructed logon behavior from credentials being accessed by process memory of the LSASS. For example, detect behaviors of Secretsdump against a system, not being a Domain Controller. 

Analytic 1 - Unusual logon sessions from LSASS memory access.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4624 TargetUserName="*"
| eval LogonType=case(Logon_Type=="2", "Interactive", Logon_Type=="3", "Network", Logon_Type=="4", "Batch", Logon_Type=="5", "Service", Logon_Type=="7", "Unlock", Logon_Type=="8", "NetworkCleartext", Logon_Type=="9", "NewCredentials", Logon_Type=="10", "RemoteInteractive", Logon_Type=="11", "CachedInteractive")
| where LogonType IN ("Interactive", "RemoteInteractive", "NetworkCleartext") ```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to access credential material stored in the process memory of the Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS). Remote access tools may contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell scripts also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-Mimikatz module, which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

Note: Event ID 4104 from the “Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell/Operational” log captures Powershell script blocks, whose contents can be further analyzed to determine if they’re performing LSASS dumping.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized command execution of LSASS memory.

``` index=security sourcetype="Powershell" EventCode=4104
Image="*powershell.exe" CommandLine IN ("*Invoke-Mimikatz*", "*procdump.exe* -ma lsass", "*rundll32.exe* comsvcs.dll, MiniDump", "*taskmgr.exe* /dump") ```

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for the unexpected creation of memory dump files for the LSASS process (e.g., `lsass{*}.dmp`).

Analytic 1 - Unexpected creation of LSASS dump files.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName="*\\lsass*.dmp" | where ProcessName IN ("procdump.exe", "rundll32.exe", "taskmgr.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmic.exe", "schtasks.exe", "cmd.exe", "comsvcs.dll") ```

