# Rootkit (T1014)

## Description
Adversaries may use rootkits to hide the presence of programs, files, network connections, services, drivers, and other system components. Rootkits are programs that hide the existence of malware by intercepting/hooking and modifying operating system API calls that supply system information.  

Rootkits or rootkit enabling functionality may reside at the user or kernel level in the operating system or lower, to include a hypervisor, Master Boot Record, or System Firmware (T1542.001).  Rootkits have been seen for Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X systems.  

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Winnti Group (G0044)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Rocke (G0106)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT28 (G0007)

## Detection
Some rootkit protections may be built into anti-virus or operating system software. There are dedicated rootkit detection tools that look for specific types of rootkit behavior. Monitor for the existence of unrecognized DLLs, devices, services, and changes to the MBR. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Drive: Drive Modification (DS0016): 
Monitor for changes made to drive letters or mount points of data storage devices for unexpected modifications that may be used by rootkits to hide the presence of programs, files, network connections, services, drivers, and other system components.

#### Firmware: Firmware Modification (DS0001): 
Monitor for changes made to firmware for unexpected modifications to settings and/or data that may be used by rootkits to hide the presence of programs, files, network connections, services, drivers, and other system components. Some rootkit protections may be built into anti-virus or operating system software. There are dedicated rootkit detection tools that look for specific types of rootkit behavior. 

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes and the existence of unrecognized DLLs, drivers, devices, services, and to the MBR. 

