# Query Registry (T1012)

## Description
Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry to gather information about the system, configuration, and installed software.

The Registry contains a significant amount of information about the operating system, configuration, software, and security. Information can easily be queried using the Reg utility, though other means to access the Registry exist. Some of the information may help adversaries to further their operation within a network. Adversaries may use the information from Query Registry (T1012) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Turla (G0010)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Chimera (G0114)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Interaction with the Windows Registry may come from the command line using utilities such as Reg or through running malware that may interact with the Registry through an API. Command-line invocation of utilities used to query the Registry may be detected through process and command-line monitoring. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls (such as ```RegOpenKeyExA```) that may interact with the Windows Registry to gather information about the system, configuration, and installed software. OS API calls associated with querying the Windows Registry are RegOpenKeyEx , RegOpenUserClassesRoot, RegQueryValueExA, and RegQueryValueExW. Execution of these functions might trigger security log ids such as 4663 (Microsoft Security Auditing). Also monitor for RegOpenUserClassesRoot api to retrieve a handle to the HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT key for a specified user. The returned key has a view of the registry that merges the contents of the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Classes key with the contents of the Software\Classes keys in the user's registry hive.

Note: Most EDR tools do not support direct monitoring of API calls due to the sheer volume of calls produced by an endpoint but may have alerts or events that are based on abstractions of OS API calls.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Access (DS0024): 
Monitor for unexpected process interactions with the Windows Registry (i.e. reads) that may be related to gathering information.

Note: For Security Auditing event ids 4656 and 4663, a System Access Control List (SACL) that controls the use of specific access rights such as Enumerate sub-keys and Query key value is required for event generation. Depending on the Registry key you are monitoring, the implementation of a new System Access Control List (SACL) might be required. Depending of Registry key used for the creation of a System Access Control List (SACL), the generation of event ids 4656 and 4663 might be noisy.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Registry

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4663, 4656)) AND ObjectType="Key" | WHERE ObjectName LIKE "%SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion\\Uninstall%" AND (UserAccessList LIKE "%4435%" OR UserAccessList LIKE "%Enumerate sub-keys%" OR UserAccessList LIKE "%4432%" OR UserAccessList LIKE "%Query key value%") AND Image NOT IN ('FilePathToExpectedProcess01.exe','FilePathToExpectedProcess02.exe')```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that may interact with the Windows Registry to gather information about the system, configuration, and installed software.

Note: For PowerShell Module logging event id 4103, enable logging for module Microsoft.PowerShell.Management. The New-PSDrive PowerShell cmdlet creates temporary and persistent drives that are mapped to or associated with a location in a data store, such a registry key (PSProvider “Registry”). The the Get-ChildItem gets the items in one or more specified locations. By using both, you can enumerate COM objects in one or more specified locations.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Commands

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational" EventCode="4103") | WHERE CommandLine LIKE "%New-PSDrive%" AND (CommandLine LIKE "%Registry%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%HKCR%")```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may interact with the Windows Registry to gather information about the system, configuration, and installed software.

Note: The New-PSDrive PowerShell cmdlet creates temporary and persistent drives that are mapped to or associated with a location in a data store, such a registry key (PSProvider “Registry”). The Get-ChildItem gets the items in one or more specified locations. By using both, you can enumerate COM objects in one or more specified locations.

Note for Analytic 3: Replace FilePathToLolbasProcessXX.exe with lolBAS process names that are used by your organization. The number_standard_deviations parameter should be tuned accordingly. Identifying outliers by comparing distance from a data point to the average value against a certain number of standard deviations is recommended for data values that are symmetrical distributed. If your data is not distributed, try a different algorithm such as the Interquartile Range (IQR).

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Processes with Registry keys

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") 
| search (CommandLine LIKE "%reg%" AND CommandLine LIKE "%query%") OR (CommandLine LIKE "%Registry%" AND (CommandLine LIKE "%HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT%" OR CommandLine "%HKCR%"))```
    
Analytic 2 - reg.exe spawned from suspicious cmd.exe

```((sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") 
| WHERE (Image LIKE "%reg.exe%" AND ParentImage LIKE "%cmd.exe%")
| rename ProcessParentGuid as guid
| join type=inner guid
[ | search ((source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND (Image LIKE "%cmd.exe%" AND ParentImage NOT LIKE "%explorer.exe%")
| rename ProcessGuid as guid ]```

Analytic 3 - Rare LolBAS command lines

``` ((sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND Image IN ('FilePathToLolbasProcess01.exe','FilePathToLolbasProcess02.exe') AND number_standard_deviations = 1.5
| select Image, ProcessCount, AVG(ProcessCount) Over() - STDEV(ProcessCount) Over() * number_standard_deviations AS LowerBound 
| WHERE ProcessCount < LowerBound```


