# System Network Configuration Discovery (T1016)

## Description
Adversaries may look for details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses, of systems they access or through information discovery of remote systems. Several operating system administration utilities exist that can be used to gather this information. Examples include Arp, ipconfig/ifconfig, nbtstat, and route.

Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI (T1059.008) on network devices to gather information about configurations and settings, such as IP addresses of configured interfaces and static/dynamic routes (e.g. ```show ip route```, ```show ip interface```). On ESXi, adversaries may leverage esxcli to gather network configuration information. For example, the command `esxcli network nic list` will retrieve the MAC address, while `esxcli network ip interface ipv4 get` will retrieve the local IPv4 address.

Adversaries may use the information from System Network Configuration Discovery (T1016) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining certain access within the target network and what actions to do next. 

## Sub-techniques
- Internet Connection Discovery (T1016.001)
- Wi-Fi Discovery (T1016.002)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Play (G1040)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- admin@338 (G0018)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- Moses Staff (G1009)
- APT19 (G0073)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT3 (G0022)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- menuPass (G0045)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- APT1 (G0006)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Naikon (G0019)
- APT42 (G1044)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Turla (G0010)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT41 (G0096)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Further, {{LinkById|T1059.008} commands may also be used to gather system and network information with built-in features native to the network device platform.  Monitor CLI activity for unexpected or unauthorized use  commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations.  Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may look for details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses, of systems they access or through information discovery of remote systems. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for executed processes (such as ipconfig/ifconfig and arp) with arguments that may look for details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses.

Note: The Analytic looks for the creation of ipconfig, route, and nbtstat processes, all of which are system administration utilities that can be used for the purpose of system network configuration discovery. If these tools are commonly used in your environment (e.g., by system administrators) this may lead to false positives and this analytic will therefore require tuning. 

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Process

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND
  (Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\ipconfig.exe" OR
   Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\route.exe" OR
   Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\nbtstat.exe")```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls (such as ```GetAdaptersInfo()``` and ```GetIpNetTable()```) that may gather details about the network configuration and settings, such as IP and/or MAC addresses.

