# Remote System Discovery (T1018)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other logical identifier on a network that may be used for Lateral Movement from the current system. Functionality could exist within remote access tools to enable this, but utilities available on the operating system could also be used such as  Ping, ```net view``` using Net, or, on ESXi servers, `esxcli network diag ping`.

Adversaries may also analyze data from local host files (ex: ```C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts``` or ```/etc/hosts```) or other passive means (such as local Arp cache entries) in order to discover the presence of remote systems in an environment.

Adversaries may also target discovery of network infrastructure as well as leverage Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands on network devices to gather detailed information about systems within a network (e.g. ```show cdp neighbors```, ```show arp```).  


## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Agrius (G1030)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- APT41 (G0096)
- FIN5 (G0053)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Play (G1040)
- Akira (G1024)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- APT39 (G0087)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Silence (G0091)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Turla (G0010)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Chimera (G0114)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT3 (G0022)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Dragonfly (G0035)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Normal, benign system and network events related to legitimate remote system discovery may be uncommon, depending on the environment and how they are used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

Monitor for processes that can be used to discover remote systems, such as ```ping.exe``` and ```tracert.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other logical identifier on a network that may be used for Lateral Movement from the current system. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users.

Windows PowerShell log Event ID 4104 (PS script execution) can be used to capture PowerShell script block contents which may contain commands used as a precursor to RDP Hijacking (T1563.002). For example, the following command in a PowerShell script block may be used to enumerate the systems on a network which have RDP access: ```Find-DomainLocalGroupMember -GroupName "Remote Desktop Users" | select -expand ComputerName```. 

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for files (such as ```/etc/hosts```) being accessed that may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other logical identifier on a network that may be used for Lateral Movement from the current system.

For Windows, Event ID 4663 (An Attempt Was Made to Access An Object) can be used to alert on access attempts of local files that store host data, including C:\Windows\System32\Drivers\etc\hosts.

For Linux, auditing frameworks such as the audit daemon (auditd) can be used to alert on access attempts of local files that store host data, including /etc/hosts.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections associated with pings/scans that may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other logical identifier on a network that may be used for Lateral Movement from the current system.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that can be used to discover remote systems, such as ```ping.exe``` and ```tracert.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.

