# Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to make an executable or file difficult to discover or analyze by encrypting, encoding, or otherwise obfuscating its contents on the system or in transit. This is common behavior that can be used across different platforms and the network to evade defenses. 

Payloads may be compressed, archived, or encrypted in order to avoid detection. These payloads may be used during Initial Access or later to mitigate detection. Sometimes a user's action may be required to open and Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information (T1140) for User Execution (T1204). The user may also be required to input a password to open a password protected compressed/encrypted file that was provided by the adversary.  Adversaries may also use compressed or archived scripts, such as JavaScript. 

Portions of files can also be encoded to hide the plain-text strings that would otherwise help defenders with discovery.  Payloads may also be split into separate, seemingly benign files that only reveal malicious functionality when reassembled. 

Adversaries may also abuse Command Obfuscation (T1027.010) to obscure commands executed from payloads or directly via Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059). Environment variables, aliases, characters, and other platform/language specific semantics can be used to evade signature based detections and application control mechanisms.   

## Sub-techniques
- Fileless Storage (T1027.011)
- Embedded Payloads (T1027.009)
- Encrypted/Encoded File (T1027.013)
- Stripped Payloads (T1027.008)
- Binary Padding (T1027.001)
- Junk Code Insertion (T1027.016)
- SVG Smuggling (T1027.017)
- LNK Icon Smuggling (T1027.012)
- Indicator Removal from Tools (T1027.005)
- Polymorphic Code (T1027.014)
- Steganography (T1027.003)
- Compile After Delivery (T1027.004)
- HTML Smuggling (T1027.006)
- Command Obfuscation (T1027.010)
- Software Packing (T1027.002)
- Dynamic API Resolution (T1027.007)
- Compression (T1027.015)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Rocke (G0106)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Gallmaker (G0084)
- BlackOasis (G0063)
- APT3 (G0022)
- APT-C-36 (G0099)
- Windshift (G0112)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- APT41 (G0096)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- User Training (M1017)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)

## Detection
Detection of file obfuscation is difficult unless artifacts are left behind by the obfuscation process that are uniquely detectable with a signature. If detection of the obfuscation itself is not possible, it may be possible to detect the malicious activity that caused the obfuscated file (for example, the method that was used to write, read, or modify the file on the file system). 

Flag and analyze commands containing indicators of obfuscation and known suspicious syntax such as uninterpreted escape characters like '''^''' and '''"'''. Windows' Sysmon and Event ID 4688 displays command-line arguments for processes. Deobfuscation tools can be used to detect these indicators in files/payloads.    

Obfuscation used in payloads for Initial Access can be detected at the network. Use network intrusion detection systems and email gateway filtering to identify compressed and encrypted attachments and scripts. Some email attachment detonation systems can open compressed and encrypted attachments. Payloads delivered over an encrypted connection from a website require encrypted network traffic inspection. 

The first detection of a malicious tool may trigger an anti-virus or other security tool alert. Similar events may also occur at the boundary through network IDS, email scanning appliance, etc. The initial detection should be treated as an indication of a potentially more invasive intrusion. The alerting system should be thoroughly investigated beyond that initial alert for activity that was not detected. Adversaries may continue with an operation, assuming that individual events like an anti-virus detect will not be investigated or that an analyst will not be able to conclusively link that event to other activity occurring on the network. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### WMI: WMI Creation (DS0005): 
Monitor for the creation of WMI Objects and values that may highlight storage of malicious data such as commands or payloads.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor executed scripts for indicators of obfuscation and potentially suspicious command syntax, such as uninterpreted escape characters (e.g., `^`).

Also monitor commands within scripts for syntax-specific signs of obfuscation, such as encoded or otherwise unreadable blobs of characters.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Detection of file obfuscation is difficult unless artifacts are left behind by the obfuscation process that are uniquely detectable with a signature. If detection of the obfuscation itself is not possible, it may be possible to detect the malicious activity that caused the obfuscated file (for example, the method that was used to write, read, or modify the file on the file system).

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitoring module loads, especially those not explicitly included in import tables, may highlight obfuscated code functionality. Dynamic malware analysis may also expose signs of code obfuscation.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
The first detection of a malicious tool may trigger an anti-virus or other security tool alert. Similar events may also occur at the boundary through network IDS, email scanning appliance, etc. The initial detection should be treated as an indication of a potentially more invasive intrusion. The alerting system should be thoroughly investigated beyond that initial alert for activity that was not detected. Adversaries may continue with an operation, assuming that individual events like an anti-virus detect will not be investigated or that an analyst will not be able to conclusively link that event to other activity occurring on the network. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for indicators of obfuscation and potentially suspicious syntax such as uninterpreted escape characters (e.g., `^`).

Also monitor command-lines for syntax-specific signs of obfuscation, such as variations of arguments associated with encoding.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, etc.

File-based signatures may be capable of detecting code obfuscation depending on the methods used.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor and analyze calls to functions such as  `GetProcAddress()` that are associated with malicious code obfuscation.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for the creation of Registry values that may highlight storage of malicious data such as commands or payloads.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to make an executable or file difficult to discover or analyze by encrypting, encoding, or otherwise obfuscating its contents on the system or in transit.

