# Fileless Storage (T1027.011)

## Description
Adversaries may store data in "fileless" formats to conceal malicious activity from defenses. Fileless storage can be broadly defined as any format other than a file. Common examples of non-volatile fileless storage in Windows systems include the Windows Registry, event logs, or WMI repository. In Linux systems, shared memory directories such as `/dev/shm`, `/run/shm`, `/var/run`, and `/var/lock` may also be considered fileless storage, as files written to these directories are mapped directly to RAM and not stored on the disk.

Similar to fileless in-memory behaviors such as Reflective Code Loading (T1620) and Process Injection (T1055), fileless data storage may remain undetected by anti-virus and other endpoint security tools that can only access specific file formats from disk storage. Leveraging fileless storage may also allow adversaries to bypass the protections offered by read-only file systems in Linux.

Adversaries may use fileless storage to conceal various types of stored data, including payloads/shellcode (potentially being used as part of Persistence (TA0003)) and collected data not yet exfiltrated from the victim (e.g., Local Data Staging (T1074.001)). Adversaries also often encrypt, encode, splice, or otherwise obfuscate this fileless data when stored.

Some forms of fileless storage activity may indirectly create artifacts in the file system, but in central and otherwise difficult to inspect formats such as the WMI (e.g., `%SystemRoot%\System32\Wbem\Repository`) or Registry (e.g., `%SystemRoot%\System32\Config`) physical files. 

## Parent Technique
- Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT32 (G0050)
- Turla (G0010)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for the creation of Registry values that may highlight storage of malicious data such as commands or payloads.

#### WMI: WMI Creation (DS0005): 
Monitor for the creation of WMI Objects and values that may highlight storage of malicious data such as commands or payloads.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
In Linux systems, monitor for newly executed processes from shared memory directories such as `/dev/shm`, `/run/shm`, `/var/run`, and `/var/lock`.

