# Windows Remote Management (T1021.006)

## Description
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to interact with remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

WinRM is the name of both a Windows service and a protocol that allows a user to interact with a remote system (e.g., run an executable, modify the Registry, modify services). It may be called with the `winrm` command or by any number of programs such as PowerShell. WinRM  can be used as a method of remotely interacting with Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047).

## Parent Technique
- Remote Services (T1021)

## Tactics
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)

## Detection
Monitor use of WinRM within an environment by tracking service execution. If it is not normally used or is disabled, then this may be an indicator of suspicious behavior.  Monitor processes created and actions taken by the WinRM process or a WinRM invoked script to correlate it with other related events. Also monitor for remote WMI connection attempts (typically over port 5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to interact with remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM), as well as service processes such as ```wmiprvse.exe``` on destination hosts.

``` sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688
| search ParentImage="*winrm*" OR ParentImage="*powershell*"
| stats count by AccountName, NewProcessName, CommandLine, ParentProcessName, _time
| where match(CommandLine, "(Invoke-Command|net user|reg add|reg delete)")
| table _time, AccountName, NewProcessName, CommandLine, ParentProcessName```

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for user accounts logging into the system via Valid Accounts (T1078) to interact with remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user. 

``` sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4624
| search LogonType=3 (WorkstationName="*" AND LogonProcessName="User32") 
| stats count by AccountName, IpAddress, WorkstationName, _time
| eval suspicious_login=if(count > threshold OR AccountName IN ("sensitive_accounts"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where suspicious_login="suspicious"
| table _time, AccountName, IpAddress, WorkstationName, suspicious_login```

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 

Monitor for newly constructed network connections using Windows Remote Management (WinRM), such as remote WMI connection attempts (typically over port 5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS).

``` sourcetype=network dest_port IN (5985, 5986) protocol="tcp"
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, _time
| eval network_anomaly=if(count > threshold OR src_ip IN ("untrusted_ips"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where network_anomaly="suspicious"
| table _time, src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, network_anomaly```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may invoke a WinRM script to correlate it with other related events.

``` sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688
| search ParentImage="*winrm*" OR ParentImage="*powershell*"
| stats count by AccountName, NewProcessName, CommandLine, ParentProcessName, _time
| where count > 1
| eval suspicious=if(match(CommandLine, "(Invoke-Command|Invoke-Expression|Base64EncodedPayload)"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where suspicious="suspicious"
| table _time, AccountName, NewProcessName, CommandLine, ParentProcessName, suspicious```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert on RPC network flows.

When a Windows Remote Management connection is opened, the client sends HTTP requests to port 5985 for HTTP or 5986 for HTTPS on the target host. Each HTTP(S) request to the URI “/wsman” is called, and other information is set in the headers. Depending on the operation, the HTTP method may vary (i.e., GET, POST, etc.). This analytic would detect Remote PowerShell, as well as other communications that rely on WinRM. Additionally, it outputs the executable on the client host, the connection information, and the hostname of the target host. Look for network connections to port 5985 and 5986. To really decipher what is going on, these outputs should be fed into something that can do packet analysis.

Note: Traffic to the RPC Endpoint Mapper will always have the destination port of 135. Assuming success, RPC traffic will continue to the endpoint. The endpoint and the client both bind to dynamically assigned ports (on Windows, this is typically greater than 49152). The traffic between the client and endpoint can be detected by looking at traffic to 135 followed by traffic where the source and destination ports are at least 49152.


#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Monitor use of WinRM within an environment by tracking service execution. If it is not normally used or is disabled, then this may be an indicator of suspicious behavior.

``` sourcetype="WinEventLog:System" EventCode=7045
| search ServiceName="WinRM"
| stats count by AccountName, ServiceName, ServiceFileName, _time
| where count > 1
| eval service_change=if(match(ServiceFileName, "winrm.exe"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where service_change="suspicious"
| table _time, AccountName, ServiceName, ServiceFileName, service_change ```

