# Software Packing (T1027.002)

## Description
Adversaries may perform software packing or virtual machine software protection to conceal their code. Software packing is a method of compressing or encrypting an executable. Packing an executable changes the file signature in an attempt to avoid signature-based detection. Most decompression techniques decompress the executable code in memory. Virtual machine software protection translates an executable's original code into a special format that only a special virtual machine can run. A virtual machine is then called to run this code. 

Utilities used to perform software packing are called packers. Example packers are MPRESS and UPX. A more comprehensive list of known packers is available, but adversaries may create their own packing techniques that do not leave the same artifacts as well-known packers to evade defenses.  

## Parent Technique
- Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- The White Company (G0089)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- Aoqin Dragon (G1007)
- MoustachedBouncer (G1019)
- APT39 (G0087)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Elderwood (G0066)
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)

## Detection
Use file scanning to look for known software packers or artifacts of packing techniques. Packing is not a definitive indicator of malicious activity, because legitimate software may use packing techniques to reduce binary size or to protect proprietary code.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Use file scanning to look for known software packers or artifacts of packing techniques. Packing is not a definitive indicator of malicious activity, because legitimate software may use packing techniques to reduce binary size or to protect proprietary code.

