# SSH (T1021.004)

## Description
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

SSH is a protocol that allows authorized users to open remote shells on other computers. Many Linux and macOS versions come with SSH installed by default, although typically disabled until the user enables it. On ESXi, SSH can be enabled either directly on the host (e.g., via `vim-cmd hostsvc/enable_ssh`) or via vCenter. The SSH server can be configured to use standard password authentication or public-private keypairs in lieu of or in addition to a password. In this authentication scenario, the user’s public key must be in a special file on the computer running the server that lists which keypairs are allowed to login as that user (i.e., SSH Authorized Keys (T1098.004)).

## Parent Technique
- Remote Services (T1021)

## Tactics
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- BlackTech (G0098)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- GCMAN (G0036)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Salt Typhoon (G1045)
- OilRig (G0049)
- APT5 (G1023)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Rocke (G0106)
- APT39 (G0087)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Use of SSH may be legitimate depending on the environment and how it’s used. Other factors, such as access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior with SSH. Monitor for user accounts logged into systems they would not normally access or access patterns to multiple systems over a relatively short period of time.

On macOS systems ```log show --predicate 'process = "sshd"'``` can be used to review incoming SSH connection attempts for suspicious activity. The command ```log show --info --predicate 'process = "ssh" or eventMessage contains "ssh"'``` can be used to review outgoing SSH connection activity.

On Linux systems SSH activity can be found in the logs located in ```/var/log/auth.log``` or ```/var/log/secure``` depending on the distro you are using.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for user accounts logged into systems that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). For example, on Linux systems SSH logon activity can be found in the logs located in ```/var/log/auth.log``` or ```/var/log/secure``` depending on the distro you are using.

For Linux systems, the Audit framework (auditd) can be used to monitor any writes to SSH log files that store information about logged in accounts such as `/var/log/auth.log`.

For macOS systems (10.12+), Unified Logs can be queried to show SSH daemon (sshd) messages that include information on logged in accounts. The following command-line can be used to query the last hour’s worth of unified logs in this manner: ```log show -info --debug --predicate 'processImagePath CONTAINS "sshd" AND eventMessage CONTAINS "Accepted"' --last 1h | grep sshd ```

``` sourcetype="/var/log/auth.log" OR source="/var/log/secure"
| search message="Accepted password" OR message="Accepted publickey"
| stats count by user, src_ip, dest_host, _time
| eval ssh_anomaly=if(count > threshold OR dest_host IN ("sensitive_hosts"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where ssh_anomaly="suspicious"
| table _time, user, src_ip, dest_host, ssh_anomaly```

For ESXi systems, SSH logins will be recorded in the following log files: `/var/log/shell.log`, `/var/log/hostd.log`, `/var/log/auth.log`, and `/var/log/vobd.log`.


#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). For example, on macOS systems ```log show --predicate 'process = "sshd"'``` can be used to review incoming SSH connection attempts for suspicious activity. The command ```log show --info --predicate 'process = "ssh" or eventMessage contains "ssh"'``` can be used to review outgoing SSH connection activity.

For Linux systems, the Audit framework (auditd) can be used to monitor for the creation of SSH related processes such as ssh. 

For macOS systems (10.12+), the above command can be used to look through the Unified Logs for SSH connection activity, though we also recommend including the “—debug” parameter to ensure that all relevant data is returned: ```log show --info --debug --predicate 'process = "ssh" or eventMessage contains "ssh"'```

``` sourcetype="/var/log/audit/audit.log" OR sourcetype="/var/log/auth.log"
| search parent_process="sshd" AND (process="*sudo*" OR process="*sensitive_command*")
| stats count by user, process, parent_process, _time
| eval process_anomaly=if(count > threshold, "suspicious", "normal")
| where process_anomaly="suspicious"
| table _time, user, process, parent_process, process_anomaly```

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections (typically port 22) that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). Use of SSH may be legitimate depending on the environment and how it’s used. Other factors, such as access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior with SSH.

Network Analysis Frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert on network traffic. Accordingly, they can be used to look for the creation of SSH network connections.

``` sourcetype="zeek" dest_port=22 protocol="tcp"
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, _time
| eval ssh_connection_anomaly=if(count > threshold OR src_ip IN ("untrusted_ips"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where ssh_connection_anomaly="suspicious"
| table _time, src_ip, dest_ip, ssh_connection_anomaly```

