# Remote Desktop Protocol (T1021.001)

## Description
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a computer using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

Remote desktop is a common feature in operating systems. It allows a user to log into an interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on a remote system. Microsoft refers to its implementation of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) as Remote Desktop Services (RDS). 

Adversaries may connect to a remote system over RDP/RDS to expand access if the service is enabled and allows access to accounts with known credentials. Adversaries will likely use Credential Access techniques to acquire credentials to use with RDP. Adversaries may also use RDP in conjunction with the Accessibility Features (T1546.008) or Terminal Services DLL (T1505.005) for Persistence.

## Parent Technique
- Remote Services (T1021)

## Tactics
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT5 (G1023)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Silence (G0091)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Axiom (G0001)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Akira (G1024)
- Agrius (G1030)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- FIN10 (G0051)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Chimera (G0114)
- APT1 (G0006)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Use of RDP may be legitimate, depending on the network environment and how it is used. Other factors, such as access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior with RDP. Monitor for user accounts logged into systems they would not normally access or access patterns to multiple systems over a relatively short period of time.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic for uncommon data flows that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a computer using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).

The Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), built in to Microsoft operating systems, allows a user to remotely log in to the desktop of another host. It allows for interactive access of the running windows, and forwards key presses, mouse clicks, etc. Network administrators, power users, and end-users may use RDP for day-to-day operations. From an adversary’s perspective, RDP provides a means to laterally move to a new host. Determining which RDP connections correspond to adversary activity can be a difficult problem in highly dynamic environments, but will be useful in identifying the scope of a compromise.
Remote Desktop can be detected in several ways

- Network connections to port 3389/tcp (assuming use of the default port)
- Packet capture analysis
- Detecting network connections from ```mstsc.exe```
- Execution of the process ```rdpclip.exe```
- Runs as the clipboard manager on the RDP target if clipboard sharing is enabled

Analytic 1 - Suspicious RDP

```<code> sourcetype=netflow LogonType="10"
| search dest_port=3389 // Default RDP port
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port
| where src_ip!="trusted_ips" AND dest_ip!="internal_servers"```


#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for user accounts logged into systems associated with RDP (ex: Windows EID 4624 Logon Type 10). Other factors, such as access patterns (ex: multiple systems over a relatively short period of time) and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior with RDP.

Monitoring logon and logoff events for hosts on the network is very important for situational awareness. This information can be used as an indicator of unusual activity as well as to corroborate activity seen elsewhere.

Could be applied to a number of different types of monitoring depending on what information is desired. Some use cases include monitoring for all remote connections and building login timelines for users. Logon events are Windows Event Code 4624 for Windows Vista and above, 518 for pre-Vista. Logoff events are 4634 for Windows Vista and above, 538 for pre-Vista.

Note: This analytic looks for user logon events and filters out the top 30 account names to reduce the occurrence of noisy service accounts and the like. It is meant as a starting point for situational awareness around such events. This is liable to be quite noisy and will need tweaking, especially in terms of the number of top users filtered out.

Analytic 1

```sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4624, 4634, 4647, 4778, 4779)
| search LogonType=10 // RDP Interactive Logon
| eval is_suspicious=if((user!="expected_users") AND (dest_ip!="expected_servers"), "True", "False")
| where is_suspicious="True"```

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections (typically over port 3389) that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a computer using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user. Other factors, such as access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior with RDP.

Analytic 1 - Abnormal RDP Network Connections

``` sourcetype=zeek 
| search dest_port=3389 // Default RDP port
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port
| where src_ip!="trusted_ips" AND dest_ip!="internal_servers"```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes (such as ```mstsc.exe```) that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a computer using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). The adversary may then perform actions that spawn additional processes as the logged-on user.

Analytic 1 - Unusual processes associated with RDP sessions

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode=1 
| search (parent_process="mstsc.exe" OR parent_process="rdpclip.exe")
| table _time, host, user, process_name, parent_process, command_line
| where process_name!="expected_processes"```

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Metadata (DS0028): 
Monitor authentication logs and analyze for unusual access patterns. A remote desktop logon, through RDP, may be typical of a system administrator or IT support, but only from select workstations. Monitoring remote desktop logons and comparing to known/approved originating systems can detect lateral movement of an adversary.

Analytic 1

```sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4624" AND LogonType="10" AND AuthenticationPackageName="Negotiate" AND TargetUserName="Admin*")```

