# Command Obfuscation (T1027.010)

## Description
Adversaries may obfuscate content during command execution to impede detection. Command-line obfuscation is a method of making strings and patterns within commands and scripts more difficult to signature and analyze. This type of obfuscation can be included within commands executed by delivered payloads (e.g., Phishing (T1566) and Drive-by Compromise (T1189)) or interactively via Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059).

For example, adversaries may abuse syntax that utilizes various symbols and escape characters (such as spacing,  `^`, `+`. `$`, and `%`) to make commands difficult to analyze while maintaining the same intended functionality. Many languages support built-in obfuscation in the form of base64 or URL encoding. Adversaries may also manually implement command obfuscation via string splitting (`“Wor”+“d.Application”`), order and casing of characters (`rev <<<'dwssap/cte/ tac'`), globing (`mkdir -p '/tmp/:&$NiA'`), as well as various tricks involving passing strings through tokens/environment variables/input streams.

Adversaries may also use tricks such as directory traversals to obfuscate references to the binary being invoked by a command (`C:\voi\pcw\..\..\Windows\tei\qs\k\..\..\..\system32\erool\..\wbem\wg\je\..\..\wmic.exe shadowcopy delete`).

Tools such as ```Invoke-Obfuscation``` and ```Invoke-DOSfucation``` have also been used to obfuscate commands.

## Parent Technique
- Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Play (G1040)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Silence (G0091)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- TA551 (G0127)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Turla (G0010)
- GOLD SOUTHFIELD (G0115)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- APT19 (G0073)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Scripts containing obfuscated content may have higher entropy of characters/strings.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor executed scripts for indicators of obfuscation and potentially suspicious command syntax, such as uninterpreted escape characters (e.g., `^`).

Also monitor commands within scripts for syntax-specific signs of obfuscation, such as encoded or otherwise unreadable blobs of characters.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for indicators of obfuscation and potentially suspicious syntax such as uninterpreted escape characters (e.g., `^`).

Also monitor command-lines for syntax-specific signs of obfuscation, such as variations of arguments associated with encoding.

