# Compile After Delivery (T1027.004)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to make payloads difficult to discover and analyze by delivering files to victims as uncompiled code. Text-based source code files may subvert analysis and scrutiny from protections targeting executables/binaries. These payloads will need to be compiled before execution; typically via native utilities such as ilasm.exe, csc.exe, or GCC/MinGW.

Source code payloads may also be encrypted, encoded, and/or embedded within other files, such as those delivered as a Phishing (T1566). Payloads may also be delivered in formats unrecognizable and inherently benign to the native OS (ex: EXEs on macOS/Linux) before later being (re)compiled into a proper executable binary with a bundled compiler and execution framework.

## Parent Technique
- Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Rocke (G0106)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Sea Turtle (G1041)

## Detection
Monitor the execution file paths and command-line arguments for common compilers, such as csc.exe and GCC/MinGW, and correlate with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives from normal user and administrator behavior. The compilation of payloads may also generate file creation and/or file write events. Look for non-native binary formats and cross-platform compiler and execution frameworks like Mono and determine if they have a legitimate purpose on the system. Typically these should only be used in specific and limited cases, like for software development.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to gather common compilers, such as csc.exe and GCC/MinGW, and correlate with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives from normal user and administrator behavior.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files for payloads

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that look for non-native binary formats and cross-platform compiler and execution frameworks like Mono and determine if they have a legitimate purpose on the system. Typically these should only be used in specific and limited cases, like for software development.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, etc.

