# Remote Services (T1021)

## Description
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a service that accepts remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

In an enterprise environment, servers and workstations can be organized into domains. Domains provide centralized identity management, allowing users to login using one set of credentials across the entire network. If an adversary is able to obtain a set of valid domain credentials, they could login to many different machines using remote access protocols such as secure shell (SSH) or remote desktop protocol (RDP). They could also login to accessible SaaS or IaaS services, such as those that federate their identities to the domain, or management platforms for internal virtualization environments such as VMware vCenter. 

Legitimate applications (such as Software Deployment Tools (T1072) and other administrative programs) may utilize Remote Services (T1021) to access remote hosts. For example, Apple Remote Desktop (ARD) on macOS is native software used for remote management. ARD leverages a blend of protocols, including VNC (T1021.005) to send the screen and control buffers and SSH (T1021.004) for secure file transfer. Adversaries can abuse applications such as ARD to gain remote code execution and perform lateral movement. In versions of macOS prior to 10.14, an adversary can escalate an SSH session to an ARD session which enables an adversary to accept TCC (Transparency, Consent, and Control) prompts without user interaction and gain access to data.

## Sub-techniques
- VNC (T1021.005)
- SSH (T1021.004)
- Direct Cloud VM Connections (T1021.008)
- SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002)
- Windows Remote Management (T1021.006)
- Distributed Component Object Model (T1021.003)
- Cloud Services (T1021.007)
- Remote Desktop Protocol (T1021.001)

## Tactics
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Ember Bear (G1003)

## Mitigations
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Correlate use of login activity related to remote services with unusual behavior or other malicious or suspicious activity. Adversaries will likely need to learn about an environment and the relationships between systems through Discovery techniques prior to attempting Lateral Movement. 

Use of applications such as ARD may be legitimate depending on the environment and how it’s used. Other factors, such as access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or malicious behavior using these applications. Monitor for user accounts logged into systems they would not normally access or access patterns to multiple systems over a relatively short period of time. 

In macOS, you can review logs for "screensharingd" and "Authentication" event messages. Monitor network connections regarding remote management (ports tcp:3283 and tcp:5900) and for remote login (port tcp:22).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes, that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a service specifically designed to accept remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

Note: On Windows, Sysmon Event ID 7 (Image loaded) can be used to monitor the loading of DLLs into processes, including those designed to accept remote connections. This is a particularly noisy event and can generate a large volume of data, so we recommend baselining and filtering out any known benign processes and module to help reduce the number of events that are produced.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a service specifically designed to accept remote connections, such as RDP, telnet, SSH, and VNC. Monitor network connections involving common remote management protocols, such as ports tcp:3283 and tcp:5900, as well as ports tcp: 3389 and tcp:22 for remote login.

``` index="network_logs" sourcetype="network_connection"
| search protocol IN ("tcp/22", "tcp/3389", "tcp/5900")
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, _time
| eval suspicious_connection=if(src_ip NOT IN ("trusted_sources") AND count > threshold, "high", "normal")
| where suspicious_connection="high"
| table _time, src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, suspicious_connection```



#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a service specifically designed to accept remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

Analytic 1 - Detect adversary commands executed via remote sessions.

``` index=* (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" OR sourcetype="/var/log/auth.log") AND (EventCode= 1 OR EventCode=sshd)
| search parent_process_name="sshd" OR parent_process_name="mstsc.exe" OR parent_process_name="rdpclip.exe"
| eval suspicious_command=case(
    match(command_line, "net user|powershell|/etc/passwd|nc|curl|socat"), "high",
    match(command_line, "whoami|ls|dir|pwd"), "low",
    true(), "normal"
  )
| stats count by host, process_name, command_line, suspicious_command, _time
| where count > threshold AND suspicious_command="high"
| table _time, host, process_name, command_line, suspicious_command  ```



#### Network Share: Network Share Access (DS0033): 
Monitor interactions with network shares, such as reads or file transfers, using remote services such as Server Message Block (SMB).

#### WMI: WMI Creation (DS0005): 
Monitor for newly constructed WMI objects that is often used to log into a service that accepts remote connects.  

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for user accounts logged into systems they would not normally access or abnormal access patterns, such as multiple systems over a relatively short period of time. Correlate use of login activity related to remote services with unusual behavior or other malicious or suspicious activity. Adversaries will likely need to learn about an environment and the relationships between systems through Discovery techniques prior to attempting Lateral Movement. For example, in macOS you can review logs for "screensharingd" and "Authentication" event messages. 

Note: When using Security event id 4624, %$ means user names that do not end with $ character. Usually, computer accounts or local system accounts names end with the $ character. When using Security event 4624, UserName and UserLogonId correspond to TargetUserName and TargetLogonId respectively. When using Security event 4624, LogonType 3 corresponds to a Network Logon

Analytic 1 - New services being created under network logon sessions by non-system users
```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4624, 4648, 4625)) AND LogonType="3" AND UserName NOT '*$' 
| rename UserLogonId AS LogonID
| join type=inner LogonID
[| search (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4697") 
| rename UserLogonId as LogonID]```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows that may be related to abuse of Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a service specifically designed to accept remote connections, such as RDP, telnet, SSH, and VNC.

Note: Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert on network service protocols such as SSH and RDP.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Protocols

```sourcetype="netflow" 
| search dest_port=22 OR dest_port=3389 OR dest_port=5900 OR dest_port=3283  // SSH, RDP, VNC, ARD```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to log into a service specifically designed to accept remote connections, such as RDP, telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may then perform actions that spawn additional processes as the logged-on user.

Malicious actors may rename built-in commands or external tools, such as those provided by SysInternals, to better blend in with the environment. In those cases, the file path name is arbitrary and may blend in well with the background. If the arguments are closely inspected, it may be possible to infer what tools are running and understand what an adversary is doing. When any legitimate software shares the same command lines, it must be whitelisted according to the expected parameters.

Any tool of interest with commonly known command line usage can be detecting by command line analysis. Known substrings of command lines include

- PuTTY
- port forwarding ```-R * -pw```
- secure copy (scp) ```-pw * * *@*```
- mimikatz ```sekurlsa::```
- RAR ```* -hp *```
- Archive* a * Additionally, it may be useful to find IP addresses in the command line
- ```\d{1,3}\.\d{1,3}\.\d{1,3}\.\d{1,3}```

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Arguments

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND 
CommandLine="-R .* -pw" OR 
CommandLine="-pw .* .* .*@.*" OR 
CommandLine="sekurlsa" OR 
CommandLine=" -hp " OR 
CommandLine=".* a .*" ```

