# SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002)

## Description
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts (T1078) to interact with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.

SMB is a file, printer, and serial port sharing protocol for Windows machines on the same network or domain. Adversaries may use SMB to interact with file shares, allowing them to move laterally throughout a network. Linux and macOS implementations of SMB typically use Samba.

Windows systems have hidden network shares that are accessible only to administrators and provide the ability for remote file copy and other administrative functions. Example network shares include `C$`, `ADMIN$`, and `IPC$`. Adversaries may use this technique in conjunction with administrator-level Valid Accounts (T1078) to remotely access a networked system over SMB, to interact with systems using remote procedure calls (RPCs), transfer files, and run transferred binaries through remote Execution. Example execution techniques that rely on authenticated sessions over SMB/RPC are Scheduled Task/Job (T1053), Service Execution (T1569.002), and Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047). Adversaries can also use NTLM hashes to access administrator shares on systems with Pass the Hash (T1550.002) and certain configuration and patch levels.

## Parent Technique
- Remote Services (T1021)

## Tactics
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- Moses Staff (G1009)
- Threat Group-1314 (G0028)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Turla (G0010)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Play (G1040)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- APT3 (G0022)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Orangeworm (G0071)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- APT39 (G0087)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Ensure that proper logging of accounts used to log into systems is turned on and centrally collected. Windows logging is able to collect success/failure for accounts that may be used to move laterally and can be collected using tools such as Windows Event Forwarding.  Monitor remote login events and associated SMB activity for file transfers and remote process execution. Monitor the actions of remote users who connect to administrative shares. Monitor for use of tools and commands to connect to remote shares, such as Net, on the command-line interface and Discovery techniques that could be used to find remotely accessible systems.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Share: Network Share Access (DS0033): 
Monitor interactions with network shares, such as reads or file transfers, using Server Message Block (SMB).

``` sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=5140
| stats count by ShareName, Account_Name, dest, src_ip, _time
| eval anomaly=if(ShareName IN ("C$", "ADMIN$", "IPC$") AND count > threshold, "potential_abuse", "normal")
| where anomaly="potential_abuse"
| table _time, ShareName, Account_Name, dest, src_ip, anomaly```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon SMB data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert on SMB network flows.

Notes:

- The logic for Implementation 1 is based around detecting on SMB write requests, which are often used by adversaries to move laterally to another host. Unlike SMB Reads, SMB Write requests typically require an additional level of access, resulting in less activity. Focusing on SMB Write activity narrows the field to looking at techniques associated with actively changing remote hosts, instead of passively reading files.
- The logic for Implementation 2 is based around detection of new processes that were created from a file written to an SMB share.  First, a file is remotely written to a host via an SMB share; then, a variety of Execution techniques can be used to remotely establish execution of the file or script. To detect this behavior, look for files that are written to a host over SMB and then later run directly as a process or in the command line arguments. SMB File Writes and Remote Execution may happen normally in an environment, but the combination of the two behaviors is less frequent and more likely to indicate adversarial activity.

Analytic 1 - SMB Write

```sourcetype="Zeek:SMB_Files" port="445" AND protocol="smb.write"```

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for logon behavior (ex: EID 4624 Logon Type 3) using Valid Accounts (T1078) to interact with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user. Ensure that proper logging of accounts used to log into systems is turned on and centrally collected. Windows logging is able to collect success/failure for accounts that may be used to move laterally and can be collected using tools such as Windows Event Forwarding. 

``` index="wineventlog" sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4624 LogonType=3
| stats count by Account_Name, dest, src_ip, _time
| eval suspicious_login=if(count > threshold AND src_ip NOT IN ("trusted_ips"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where suspicious_login="suspicious"
| table _time, Account_Name, dest, src_ip, suspicious_login```

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections (typically over ports 139 or 445), especially those that are sent or received by abnormal or untrusted hosts. Correlate these network connections with remote login events and associated SMB-related activity such as file transfers and remote process execution.

Note: Event ID is for Zeek but can also be implemented in other Network Analysis Frameworks by parsing & decoding captured SMB2 network traffic. Preference would be to detect smb2_write_response event (instead of smb2_write_request), because it would confirm the file was actually written to the remote destination. Unfortunately, Bro/Zeek does not have an event for that SMB message-type yet. From a network traffic capture standpoint, it’s important to capture the right traffic for this type of detection to function (e.g., all endpoint to endpoint if possible or workstation to server and workstation to workstation). As such, it is helpful to have a centralized server area where it is possible to monitor communications between servers and endpoints.

Analytic 1 and 2 are very similar, with the key difference being that Implementation 2 is intended to capture multiple attempts at lateral movement originating from the same host within a short time period (5 minutes).

- smb2_write_request, smb1_write_andx_response is indication of an SMB file write to a Windows Admin File Share: ADMIN$ or C$

- smb2_tree_connect_request, smb1_tree_connect_andx_request is observed originating from the same host, regardless of write-attempts and regardless of whether or not any connection is successful —just connection attempts— within a specified period of time (REPEATS 5 TIMES WITHIN 5 MINUTES FROM SAME src_ip).

From a network traffic capture standpoint, it’s important to capture the right traffic for this type of detection to function (e.g., all endpoint to endpoint if possible or workstation to server and workstation to workstation). As such, it is helpful to have a centralized server area where it is possible to monitor communications between servers and endpoints.The Service Control Manager (SCM) can be used to copy a file to the ADMIN$ share and execute it as a service. This can be detected by looking for incoming RPC network connections to the Service Control Manager, followed by services.exe spawning a child process.

Analytic 1 - Basic

```sourcetype="Zeek:SMB_Files" EventCode IN ("smb2_write_request", "smb1_write_andx_response", "smb2_tree_connect_request", "smb1_tree_connect_andx_request") AND (Path="ADMIN$" OR Path="C$")```

Analytic 2 - Port 445 Monitoring 

``` sourcetype="network_connection"
| search dest_port=445
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, _time
| eval smb_activity=if(count > threshold AND src_ip NOT IN ("trusted_sources"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where smb_activity="suspicious"
| table _time, src_ip, dest_ip, dest_port, smb_activity```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for the creation of WMI Win32_Process class and method Create to interact with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). Relevant indicators detected by Bro/Zeek is IWbemServices::ExecMethod or IWbemServices::ExecMethodAsync. One thing to notice is that when the Create method is used on a remote system, the method is run under a host process named “Wmiprvse.exe”.

The process WmiprvSE.exe is what spawns the process defined in the CommandLine parameter of the Create method. Therefore, the new process created remotely will have Wmiprvse.exe as a parent. WmiprvSE.exe is a DCOM server and it is spawned underneath the DCOM service host svchost.exe with the following parameters C:\WINDOWS\system32\svchost.exe -k DcomLaunch -p. From a logon session perspective, on the target, WmiprvSE.exe is spawned in a different logon session by the DCOM service host. However, whatever is executed by WmiprvSE.exe occurs on the new network type (3) logon session created by the user that authenticated from the network.

Analytic 1 - Basic

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND ParentImage="*wmiprvse.exe" AND TargetLogonID="0x3e7"```


#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that connect to remote shares, such as Net, on the command-line interface and Discovery techniques that could be used to find remotely accessible systems.

``` sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688
| search ParentImage IN ("*cmd.exe*", "*powershell.exe*") CommandLine IN ("net use*", "net share*")
| stats count by Account_Name, CommandLine, ParentImage, dest, src_ip, _time
| eval suspicious_command=if(count > threshold, "high", "normal")
| where suspicious_command="high"
| table _time, Account_Name, CommandLine, ParentImage, dest, src_ip, suspicious_command ```

