# Junk Code Insertion (T1027.016)

## Description
Adversaries may use junk code / dead code to obfuscate a malware’s functionality. Junk code is code that either does not execute, or if it does execute, does not change the functionality of the code. Junk code makes analysis more difficult and time-consuming, as the analyst steps through non-functional code instead of analyzing the main code. It also may hinder detections that rely on static code analysis due to the use of benign functionality, especially when combined with Compression (T1027.015) or Software Packing (T1027.002).

No-Operation (NOP) instructions are an example of dead code commonly used in x86 assembly language. They are commonly used as the 0x90 opcode. When NOPs are added to malware, the disassembler may show the NOP instructions, leading to the analyst needing to step through them.

The use of junk / dead code insertion is distinct from Binary Padding (T1027.001) because the purpose is to obfuscate the functionality of the code, rather than simply to change the malware’s signature.   

## Parent Technique
- Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)

## Mitigations
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
When executed, the resulting process from files containing dead code may exhibit other behavior characteristics of being used to conduct an intrusion such as system and network information Discovery or Lateral Movement, which could be used as event indicators that point to the source file.

