# Masquerading (T1036)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. Masquerading occurs when the name or location of an object, legitimate or malicious, is manipulated or abused for the sake of evading defenses and observation. This may include manipulating file metadata, tricking users into misidentifying the file type, and giving legitimate task or service names.

Renaming abusable system utilities to evade security monitoring is also a form of Masquerading (T1036).

## Sub-techniques
- Double File Extension (T1036.007)
- Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location (T1036.005)
- Masquerade File Type (T1036.008)
- Break Process Trees (T1036.009)
- Overwrite Process Arguments (T1036.011)
- Right-to-Left Override (T1036.002)
- Masquerade Task or Service (T1036.004)
- Invalid Code Signature (T1036.001)
- Rename Legitimate Utilities (T1036.003)
- Masquerade Account Name (T1036.010)
- Space after Filename (T1036.006)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- menuPass (G0045)
- APT32 (G0050)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Nomadic Octopus (G0133)
- Agrius (G1030)
- Aoqin Dragon (G1007)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- APT28 (G0007)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Windshift (G0112)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- TA551 (G0127)
- PLATINUM (G0068)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- User Training (M1017)
- Code Signing (M1045)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Collect file hashes; file names that do not match their expected hash are suspect. Perform file monitoring; files with known names but in unusual locations are suspect. Likewise, files that are modified outside of an update or patch are suspect.

If file names are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata, this is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled. Collecting and comparing disk and resource filenames for binaries by looking to see if the InternalName, OriginalFilename, and/or ProductName match what is expected could provide useful leads, but may not always be indicative of malicious activity.  Do not focus on the possible names a file could have, but instead on the command-line arguments that are known to be used and are distinct because it will have a better rate of detection.

Look for indications of common characters that may indicate an attempt to trick users into misidentifying the file type, such as a space as the last character of a file name or the right-to-left override characters"\u202E", "[U+202E]", and "%E2%80%AE”.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files outside of an update or patch that may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. Windows Event ID 4663 (An Attempt Was Made to Access An Object) can be used to alert on attempted file accesses that may be associate with Masquerading. 

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor for file names that are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata, this is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled. 

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons that may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools.

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Monitor for contextual data about a service/daemon, which may include information such as name, service executable, start type, etc.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. The RECYCLER and SystemVolumeInformation directories will be present on every drive. Replace %systemroot% and %windir% with the actual paths as configured by the endpoints.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Run Locations

```(sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND (
 Image="*:\RECYCLER\*" OR
  Image="*:\SystemVolumeInformation\*" OR
  Image="%windir%\Tasks\*" OR
  Image="%systemroot%\debug\*")```

#### Image: Image Metadata (DS0007): 
Collecting disk and resource filenames for binaries, comparing that the InternalName, OriginalFilename, and/or ProductName match what is expected, could provide useful leads but may not always be indicative of malicious activity. 

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Metadata (DS0003): 
Monitor for contextual data about a scheduled job, which may include information such as name, timing, command(s), etc.

On Windows, Event ID 4698 (Security Log - A scheduled task was created) can be used to alert on the creation of scheduled tasks and provides metadata including the task name and task content (as XML).

On Linux, auditing frameworks such as the Linux Auditing System (auditd) can be used to alert on invocations of cron, and provides the metadata included when executing the command. 

#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed accounts with names that are unusually generic or identical to recently-deleted accounts.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Collect file hashes; file names that do not match their expected hash are suspect. Perform file monitoring; files with known names but in unusual locations are suspect. Look for indications of common characters that may indicate an attempt to trick users into misidentifying the file type, such as a space as the last character of a file name or the right-to-left override characters"\u202E", "[U+202E]", and "%E2%80%AE”.

Check and ensure that file headers/signature and extensions match using magic bytes detection and/or file signature validation. In Linux, the ```file``` command may be used to check the file signature.

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Modification (DS0003): 
Monitor for changes made to scheduled jobs that may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. 

Note: For Windows, Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational log) captures Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on potential Masquerading. 

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls such as `fork()` which can be abused to masquerade or manipulate process metadata.

