# Network Logon Script (T1037.003)

## Description
Adversaries may use network logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to establish persistence. Network logon scripts can be assigned using Active Directory or Group Policy Objects. These logon scripts run with the privileges of the user they are assigned to. Depending on the systems within the network, initializing one of these scripts could apply to more than one or potentially all systems.  
 
Adversaries may use these scripts to maintain persistence on a network. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (T1037)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor logon scripts for unusual access by abnormal users or at abnormal times. Look for files added or modified by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties. Monitor running process for actions that could be indicative of abnormal programs or executables running upon logon.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for logon scripts

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for changes made in the Active Directory that may use network logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to establish persistence.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files for unexpected modifications to unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties  

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that execute logon scripts

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties

