# RC Scripts (T1037.004)

## Description
Adversaries may establish persistence by modifying RC scripts, which are executed during a Unix-like system’s startup. These files allow system administrators to map and start custom services at startup for different run levels. RC scripts require root privileges to modify.

Adversaries may establish persistence by adding a malicious binary path or shell commands to ```rc.local```, ```rc.common```, and other RC scripts specific to the Unix-like distribution. Upon reboot, the system executes the script's contents as root, resulting in persistence.

Adversary abuse of RC scripts is especially effective for lightweight Unix-like distributions using the root user as default, such as ESXi hypervisors, IoT, or embedded systems. As ESXi servers store most system files in memory and therefore discard changes on shutdown, leveraging `/etc/rc.local.d/local.sh` is one of the few mechanisms for enabling persistence across reboots.

Several Unix-like systems have moved to Systemd and deprecated the use of RC scripts. This is now a deprecated mechanism in macOS in favor of Launchd (T1053.004). This technique can be used on Mac OS X Panther v10.3 and earlier versions which still execute the RC scripts. To maintain backwards compatibility some systems, such as Ubuntu, will execute the RC scripts if they exist with the correct file permissions.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (T1037)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor for unexpected changes to RC scripts in the ```/etc/``` directory. Monitor process execution resulting from RC scripts for unusual or unknown applications or behavior.

Monitor for ```/etc/rc.local``` file creation. Although types of RC scripts vary for each Unix-like distribution, several execute ```/etc/rc.local``` if present. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed `/etc/rc.local` files.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that execute `/etc/rc.local` if present.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files for unexpected modifications to RC scripts in the `/etc/` directory. On ESXi servers, the `/etc/rc.local.d/local.sh` file should almost always be empty.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments resulting from RC scripts for unusual or unknown applications or behavior.

