# System Owner/User Discovery (T1033)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to identify the primary user, currently logged in user, set of users that commonly uses a system, or whether a user is actively using the system. They may do this, for example, by retrieving account usernames or by using OS Credential Dumping (T1003). The information may be collected in a number of different ways using other Discovery techniques, because user and username details are prevalent throughout a system and include running process ownership, file/directory ownership, session information, and system logs. Adversaries may use the information from System Owner/User Discovery (T1033) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Various utilities and commands may acquire this information, including ```whoami```. In macOS and Linux, the currently logged in user can be identified with ```w``` and ```who```. On macOS the ```dscl . list /Users | grep -v '_'``` command can also be used to enumerate user accounts. Environment variables, such as ```%USERNAME%``` and ```$USER```, may also be used to access this information.

On network devices, Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands such as `show users` and `show ssh` can be used to display users currently logged into the device.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- APT19 (G0073)
- FIN10 (G0051)
- APT32 (G0050)
- APT39 (G0087)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT41 (G0096)
- OilRig (G0049)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Windshift (G0112)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- APT3 (G0022)

## Detection
`System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor `show` commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Access (DS0026): 
Monitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity possibly associated with DCSync.    Note: Domain controllers may not log replication requests originating from the default domain controller account. . Monitor for replication requests  from IPs not associated with known domain controllers. 

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software. Look for command-lines that invoke AuditD or the Security Accounts Manager (SAM). Remote access tools may contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell (T1059.001) scripts also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-Mimikatz module,  which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

Note: Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational log) captures Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on abuse of CMSTP. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

Note: Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert on network protocols.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may be indicative of credential dumping. On Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, monitor Windows Logs for LSASS.exe creation to verify that LSASS started as a protected process.

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The Analytic looks for any instances of at being created, therefore implying the querying or creation of tasks. If this tools is commonly used in your environment (e.g., by system administrators) this may lead to false positives and this analytic will therefore require tuning. 

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Process Execution

``` (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND Image="*at.exe"```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Access (DS0024): 
Monitor for the SAM registry key being accessed that may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for hash dumpers opening the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on the local file system (```%SystemRoot%/system32/config/SAM```). Some hash dumpers will open the local file system as a device and parse to the SAM table to avoid file access defenses. Others will make an in-memory copy of the SAM table before reading hashes. Detection of compromised  Valid Accounts (T1078) in-use by adversaries may help as well.

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with lsass.exe. Common credential dumpers such as Mimikatz access the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) process by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details are stored. Credential dumpers may also use methods for reflective Process Injection (T1055) to reduce potential indicators of malicious activity.
##### Linux
To obtain the passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps file in the /proc filesystem for the process being analyzed. This file is stored under the path ```/proc/&lt;pid&gt;/maps```, where the ```&lt;pid&gt;``` directory is the unique pid of the program being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this file in the proc file system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.

