# Masquerade File Type (T1036.008)

## Description
Adversaries may masquerade malicious payloads as legitimate files through changes to the payload's formatting, including the file’s signature, extension, icon, and contents. Various file types have a typical standard format, including how they are encoded and organized. For example, a file’s signature (also known as header or magic bytes) is the beginning bytes of a file and is often used to identify the file’s type. For example, the header of a JPEG file,  is ``` 0xFF 0xD8``` and the file extension is either `.JPE`, `.JPEG` or `.JPG`. 

Adversaries may edit the header’s hex code and/or the file extension of a malicious payload in order to bypass file validation checks and/or input sanitization. This behavior is commonly used when payload files are transferred (e.g., Ingress Tool Transfer (T1105)) and stored (e.g., Upload Malware (T1608.001)) so that adversaries may move their malware without triggering detections. 

Common non-executable file types and extensions, such as text files (`.txt`) and image files (`.jpg`, `.gif`, etc.) may be typically treated as benign.  Based on this, adversaries may use a file extension to disguise malware, such as naming a PHP backdoor code with a file name of ```test.gif```. A user may not know that a file is malicious due to the benign appearance and file extension.

Polygot files, which are files that have multiple different file types and that function differently based on the application that will execute them, may also be used to disguise malicious malware and capabilities.

## Parent Technique
- Masquerading (T1036)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- BlackByte (G1043)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Check and ensure that file headers/signature and extensions match using magic bytes detection and/or file signature validation. In Linux, the ```file``` command may be used to check the file signature.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for abnormal command execution from otherwise non-executable file types (such as `.txt` and `.jpg`). 

