# Logon Script (Windows) (T1037.001)

## Description
Adversaries may use Windows logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to establish persistence. Windows allows logon scripts to be run whenever a specific user or group of users log into a system. This is done via adding a path to a script to the ```HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript``` Registry key.

Adversaries may use these scripts to maintain persistence on a single system. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary. 

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (T1037)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT28 (G0007)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)

## Mitigations
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)

## Detection
Monitor for changes to Registry values associated with Windows logon scrips, nameley ```HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript```.

Monitor running process for actions that could be indicative of abnormal programs or executables running upon logon.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for logon scripts

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that execute logon scripts

Analytic 1 - Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND CommandLine="*reg*add*\Environment*UserInitMprLogonScript" ```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for the creation to Registry keys associated with Windows logon scrips, nameley ```HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript```.

Adversaries may schedule software to run whenever a user logs into the system; this is done to establish persistence and sometimes for lateral movement. This trigger is established through the registry key HKEY_CURRENT_USER\EnvironmentUserInitMprLogonScript. This signature looks edits to existing keys or creation of new keys in that path. Users purposefully adding benign scripts to this path will result in false positives; that case is rare, however. There are other ways of running a script at startup or login that are not covered in this signature. Note that this signature overlaps with the Windows Sysinternals Autoruns tool, which would also show changes to this registry path.

Analytic 1 - Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts

``` (sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode IN (12, 14, 13)) TargetObject= "*\Environment*UserInitMprLogonScript")  ```

