# Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (T1037)

## Description
Adversaries may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence. Initialization scripts can be used to perform administrative functions, which may often execute other programs or send information to an internal logging server. These scripts can vary based on operating system and whether applied locally or remotely.  

Adversaries may use these scripts to maintain persistence on a single system. Depending on the access configuration of the logon scripts, either local credentials or an administrator account may be necessary. 

An adversary may also be able to escalate their privileges since some boot or logon initialization scripts run with higher privileges.

## Sub-techniques
- Login Hook (T1037.002)
- Startup Items (T1037.005)
- Network Logon Script (T1037.003)
- RC Scripts (T1037.004)
- Logon Script (Windows) (T1037.001)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT41 (G0096)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Rocke (G0106)

## Mitigations
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor logon scripts for unusual access by abnormal users or at abnormal times. Look for files added or modified by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties. Monitor running process for actions that could be indicative of abnormal programs or executables running upon logon.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that are modified by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for newly constructed windows registry keys that may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may consist of logon scripts for unusual access by abnormal users or at abnormal times.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence. Adversaries may schedule software to run whenever a user logs into the system; this is done to establish persistence and sometimes for lateral movement. This trigger is established through the registry key ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\EnvironmentUserInitMprLogonScript```. This signature looks edits to existing keys or creation of new keys in that path. Users purposefully adding benign scripts to this path will result in false positives; that case is rare, however. There are other ways of running a script at startup or login that are not covered in this signature. Note that this signature overlaps with the Windows Sysinternals Autoruns tool, which would also show changes to this registry path.

Analytic 1 - Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND CommandLine="*reg*add*\Environment*UserInitMprLogonScript" ```

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for changes made in the Active Directory that may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish persistence.

