# Masquerade Task or Service (T1036.004)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to manipulate the name of a task or service to make it appear legitimate or benign. Tasks/services executed by the Task Scheduler or systemd will typically be given a name and/or description. Windows services will have a service name as well as a display name. Many benign tasks and services exist that have commonly associated names. Adversaries may give tasks or services names that are similar or identical to those of legitimate ones.

Tasks or services contain other fields, such as a description, that adversaries may attempt to make appear legitimate.

## Parent Technique
- Masquerading (T1036)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Carbanak (G0008)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- APT-C-36 (G0099)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- BITTER (G1002)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- PROMETHIUM (G0056)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- APT41 (G0096)

## Detection
Look for changes to tasks and services that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Suspicious program execution through scheduled tasks or services may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to create tasks or services. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Modification (DS0003): 
Monitor for changes made to scheduled jobs for unexpected modifications to execution launch

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to manipulate the name of a task or service to make it appear legitimate or benign.

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Monitor for changes made to services for unexpected modifications to names, descriptions, and/or start types

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Metadata (DS0003): 
Monitor for contextual data about a scheduled job, which may include information such as name, timing, command(s), etc.

