# Login Hook (T1037.002)

## Description
Adversaries may use a Login Hook to establish persistence executed upon user logon. A login hook is a plist file that points to a specific script to execute with root privileges upon user logon. The plist file is located in the ```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist``` file and can be modified using the ```defaults``` command-line utility. This behavior is the same for logout hooks where a script can be executed upon user logout. All hooks require administrator permissions to modify or create hooks. 

Adversaries can add or insert a path to a malicious script in the ```com.apple.loginwindow.plist``` file, using the ```LoginHook``` or ```LogoutHook``` key-value pair. The malicious script is executed upon the next user login. If a login hook already exists, adversaries can add additional commands to an existing login hook. There can be only one login and logout hook on a system at a time.

**Note:** Login hooks were deprecated in 10.11 version of macOS in favor of Launch Daemon (T1543.004) and Launch Agent (T1543.001) 

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (T1037)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor logon scripts for unusual access by abnormal users or at abnormal times. Look for files added or modified by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties. Monitor running process for actions that could be indicative of abnormal programs or executables running upon logon.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for the creation of and/or changes to login hook files (```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist```), especially by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes to login hook files (```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist```), especially by unusual accounts outside of normal administration duties.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes and/or command-lines to install or modify login hooks, as well as processes spawned at user login by these hooks.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands with arguments to install or modify login hooks.

