# Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location (T1036.005)

## Description
Adversaries may match or approximate the name or location of legitimate files, Registry keys, or other resources when naming/placing them. This is done for the sake of evading defenses and observation. 

This may be done by placing an executable in a commonly trusted directory (ex: under System32) or giving it the name of a legitimate, trusted program (ex: `svchost.exe`). Alternatively, a Windows Registry key may be given a close approximation to a key used by a legitimate program. In containerized environments, a threat actor may create a resource in a trusted namespace or one that matches the naming convention of a container pod or cluster.

## Parent Technique
- Masquerading (T1036)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- APT41 (G0096)
- APT42 (G1044)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Mustard Tempest (G1020)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- WIRTE (G0090)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Transparent Tribe (G0134)
- admin@338 (G0018)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- Akira (G1024)
- Ferocious Kitten (G0137)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- APT29 (G0016)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- PROMETHIUM (G0056)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Whitefly (G0107)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Machete (G0095)
- Carbanak (G0008)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- APT1 (G0006)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Sowbug (G0054)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Poseidon Group (G0033)
- Silence (G0091)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Turla (G0010)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Rocke (G0106)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Code Signing (M1045)

## Detection
Collect file hashes; file names that do not match their expected hash are suspect. Perform file monitoring; files with known names but in unusual locations are suspect. Likewise, files that are modified outside of an update or patch are suspect.

If file names are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata, this is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled. Collecting and comparing disk and resource filenames for binaries by looking to see if the InternalName, OriginalFilename, and/or ProductName match what is expected could provide useful leads, but may not always be indicative of malicious activity.  Do not focus on the possible names a file could have, but instead on the command-line arguments that are known to be used and are distinct because it will have a better rate of detection.

In containerized environments, use image IDs and layer hashes to compare images instead of relying only on their names. Monitor for the unexpected creation of new resources within your cluster in Kubernetes, especially those created by atypical users.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Collect file hashes; file names that do not match their expected hash are suspect. Perform file monitoring; files with known names but in unusual locations are suspect. Likewise, files that are modified outside of an update or patch are suspect.

#### Image: Image Metadata (DS0007): 
In containerized environments, use image IDs and layer hashes to compare images instead of relying only on their names. Monitor for the unexpected creation of new resources within your cluster in Kubernetes, especially those created by atypical users.

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Collecting and comparing disk and resource filenames for binaries by looking to see if the InternalName, OriginalFilename, and/or ProductName match what is expected could provide useful leads, but may not always be indicative of malicious activity.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may match or approximate the name or location of legitimate files or resources when naming/placing them. Looks for mismatches between process names and their image paths.Malware authors often use this technique to hide malicious executables behind legitimate Windows executable names (e.g. `lsass.exe`, `svchost.exe`, etc).
There are several sub-techniques, but this analytic focuses on Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location (T1036.005) only.

Note: With process monitoring, hunt for processes matching these criteria:

- process name is `svchost.exe`, `smss.exe`, `wininit.exe`, `taskhost.exe`, etc.
- process path is not `C:\Windows\System32\` or `C:\Windows\SysWow64\`

Examples (true positive): `C:\Users\administrator\svchost.exe`

To make sure the rule doesn’t miss cases where the executable would be started from a sub-folder of these locations, the entire path is checked for the process path. The below example should be considered as suspicious: `C:\Windows\System32\srv\svchost.exe`

Analytic 1 - Common Windows Process Masquerading

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688")
AND ( (Image=svchost.exe AND (image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\svchost.exe" OR process_path!="C:\\Windows\\SysWow64\\svchost.exe"))
  OR (Image="*smss.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\smss.exe")
  OR (Image="wininit.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\wininit.exe")
  OR (Image="taskhost.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\taskhost.exe")
  OR (Image="lasass.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\lsass.exe")
  OR (Image="winlogon.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\winlogon.exe")
  OR (Image="csrss.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\csrss.exe")
  OR (Image="services.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\services.exe")
  OR (Image="lsm.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\lsm.exe")
  OR (Image="explorer.exe" AND image_path!="C:\\Windows\\explorer.exe")```

