# Rename Legitimate Utilities (T1036.003)

## Description
Adversaries may rename legitimate / system utilities to try to evade security mechanisms concerning the usage of those utilities. Security monitoring and control mechanisms may be in place for legitimate utilities adversaries are capable of abusing, including both built-in binaries and tools such as PSExec, AutoHotKey, and IronPython. It may be possible to bypass those security mechanisms by renaming the utility prior to utilization (ex: rename ```rundll32.exe```). An alternative case occurs when a legitimate utility is copied or moved to a different directory and renamed to avoid detections based on these utilities executing from non-standard paths.

## Parent Technique
- Masquerading (T1036)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- menuPass (G0045)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- APT32 (G0050)
- APT38 (G0082)
- GALLIUM (G0093)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
If file names are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata, this is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled. Collecting and comparing disk and resource filenames for binaries by looking to see if the InternalName, OriginalFilename, and/or ProductName match what is expected could provide useful leads, but may not always be indicative of malicious activity.  Do not focus on the possible names a file could have, but instead on the command-line arguments that are known to be used and are distinct because it will have a better rate of detection.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected modifications to file names that are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata. This is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled.  

Note: There are no standard Windows events for file modification. However, Event ID 4663 (An attempt was made to access an object) can be used to audit and alert on attempts to access system utility binaries; the “Accesses” field can be used to filter by type of access (e.g., `MODIFY` vs `DELETE`). 

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor for file names that are mismatched between the file name on disk and that of the binary's PE metadata. This is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was compiled. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may rename legitimate / system utilities to try to evade security mechanisms concerning the usage of those utilities.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Collecting and comparing disk and resource filenames for binaries by looking to see if the `InternalName`, `OriginalFilename`, and/or `ProductName` match what is expected could provide useful leads, but may not always be indicative of malicious activity.

