# Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to execute malicious commands and payloads. WMI is designed for programmers and is the infrastructure for management data and operations on Windows systems. WMI is an administration feature that provides a uniform environment to access Windows system components.

The WMI service enables both local and remote access, though the latter is facilitated by Remote Services (T1021) such as Distributed Component Object Model (T1021.003) and Windows Remote Management (T1021.006). Remote WMI over DCOM operates using port 135, whereas WMI over WinRM operates over port 5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS. 

An adversary can use WMI to interact with local and remote systems and use it as a means to execute various behaviors, such as gathering information for Discovery (TA0007) as well as Execution (TA0002) of commands and payloads. For example, `wmic.exe` can be abused by an adversary to delete shadow copies with the command `wmic.exe Shadowcopy Delete` (i.e., Inhibit System Recovery (T1490)).

**Note:** `wmic.exe` is deprecated as of January of 2024, with the WMIC feature being “disabled by default” on Windows 11+. WMIC will be removed from subsequent Windows releases and replaced by PowerShell (T1059.001) as the primary WMI interface. In addition to PowerShell and tools like `wbemtool.exe`, COM APIs can also be used to programmatically interact with WMI via C++, .NET, VBScript, etc.

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- menuPass (G0045)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- APT29 (G0016)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Windshift (G0112)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- APT42 (G1044)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Chimera (G0114)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT41 (G0096)
- FIN8 (G0061)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Monitor network traffic for WMI connections; the use of WMI in environments that do not typically use WMI may be suspect. Perform process monitoring to capture command-line arguments of "wmic" and detect commands that are used to perform remote behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic for WMI connections for potential use to remotely edit configuration, start services, or query files. When remote WMI requests are over RPC it connects to a DCOM interface within the RPC group ```netsvcs```. To detect this activity, a sensor is needed at the network level that can decode RPC traffic or on the host where the communication can be detected more natively, such as Event Tracing for Windows. Using wireshark/tshark decoders, the WMI interfaces can be extracted so that WMI activity over RPC can be detected. Although the description details how to detect remote WMI precisely, a decent estimate has been to look for the string RPCSS within the initial RPC connection on 135/tcp. It returns a superset of this activity, and will trigger on all DCOM-related services running within RPC, which is likely to also be activity that should be detected between hosts. More about RPCSS at : rpcss_dcom_interfaces.html

Look for instances of the WMI querying in network traffic, and find the cases where a process is launched immediately after a connection is seen. This essentially merges the request to start a remote process via WMI with the process execution. If other processes are spawned from wmiprvse.exe in this time frame, it is possible for race conditions to occur, and the wrong process may be merged. If this is the case, it may be useful to look deeper into the network traffic to see if the desired command can be extracted.

After the WMI connection has been initialized, a process can be remotely launched using the command: ```wmic /node:"<hostname>" process call create "<command line>"```, which is detected in the third Detection Pseudocode. 

This leaves artifacts at both a network (RPC) and process (command line) level. When ```wmic.exe``` (or the schtasks API) is used to remotely create processes, Windows uses RPC (135/tcp) to communicate with the the remote machine.

After RPC authenticates, the RPC endpoint mapper opens a high port connection, through which the schtasks Remote Procedure Call is actually implemented. With the right packet decoders, or by looking for certain byte streams in raw data, these functions can be identified.

When the command line is executed, it has the parent process of ```C:\windows\system32\wbem\WmiPrvSE.exe```. This analytic looks for these two events happening in sequence, so that the network connection and target process are output.

Certain strings can be identifiers of the WMI by looking up the interface UUID for ```IRemUnknown2``` in different formats
- UUID ```00000143-0000-0000-c000-000000000046``` (decoded)
- Hex ```43 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 c0 00 00 00 00 00 00 46``` (raw)
- ASCII ```CF``` (printable text only)

This identifier is present three times during the RPC request phase. Any sensor that has access to the byte code as raw, decoded, or ASCII could implement this analytic. The transfer syntax is
- UUID ```8a885d04-1ceb-11c9-9fe8-08002b104860``` (decoded)
- Hex ```04 5d 88 8a eb 1c c9 11 9f e8 08 00 2b 10 48 60``` (raw)
- ASCII ````]+H````` (printable text only)

Thus, a great ASCII based signature is
- ```*CF*]+H*CF*CF*host*"```

Note: To detect WMI over RPC (using DCOM), a sensor needs to exist that has the insight into individual connections and can actually decode and make sense of RPC traffic. Specifically, WMI can be detected by looking at RPC traffic where the target interface matches that of WMI, which is IRemUnknown2. Look for instances of the WMI querying in network traffic, and find the cases where a process is launched immediately after a connection is seen. This essentially merges the request to start a remote process via WMI with the process execution. If other processes are spawned from wmiprvse.exe in this time frame, it is possible for race conditions to occur, and the wrong process may be merged. If this is the case, it may be useful to look deeper into the network traffic to see if the desired command can be extracted.

Analytic 1 - Monitor for WMI over RPC (DCOM) connections. Look for the string RPCSS within the initial RPC connection on port 135/tcp.

``` index=windows_logs sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational OR sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Security-Auditing
| eval ProcessName=lower(ProcessName), CommandLine=lower(CommandLine)
| search ProcessName IN ("wmic.exe", "powershell.exe", "wmiprvse.exe", "wmiadap.exe", "scrcons.exe", "wbemtool.exe")
| search CommandLine IN ("*process call create*", "*win32_process*", "*win32_service*", "*shadowcopy delete*", "*network*")
| search (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688) OR (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode=1)
| join ProcessName [ search index=windows_logs sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode=3 
| eval DestinationIp = coalesce(DestinationIp, dest_ip)
| eval DestinationPort = coalesce(DestinationPort, dest_port)
| search DestinationPort IN (135, 5985, 5986) ]
| stats count by _time, ComputerName, User, ProcessName, CommandLine, DestinationIp, DestinationPort, dest, src_ip, dest_ip
| eval alert_message="Suspicious WMI Network Connection Detected: " + ProcessName + " executed by " + User + " on " + ComputerName + " with command: " + CommandLine + " connecting to " + DestinationIp + ":" + DestinationPort
| where NOT (User="SYSTEM" OR ProcessName="wmiprvse.exe" OR (src_ip="trusted_ip_range" AND DestinationIp="trusted_ip_range"))
| table _time, ComputerName, User, ProcessName, CommandLine, DestinationIp, DestinationPort, src_ip, dest_ip, alert_message```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines of "wmic”. If the command line utility ```wmic.exe``` is used on the source host, then it can additionally be detected on an analytic. The command line on the source host is constructed into something like ```wmic.exe /node:"\<hostname\>" process call create "\<command line\>"```. It is possible to also connect via IP address, in which case the string ```"\<hostname\>"``` would instead look like IP Address. Processes can be created remotely via WMI in a few other ways, such as more direct API access or the built-in utility PowerShell.

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 10 - process access) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). 

Besides executing arbitrary processes, wmic.exe can also be used to executed data stored in NTFS alternate data streams NTFS File Attributes (T1564.004).
Looks for instances of wmic.exe as well as the substrings in the command line:
- process call create
- /node:

Analytic 1 - Detect wmic.exeprocess creation with command lines containing process call create or /node:.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" 
(EventCode=4688 OR EventCode=4656 OR EventCode=4103 OR EventCode=800) 
| eval command_line = coalesce(CommandLine, ParentCommandLine) 
| where (ProcessName="wmic.exe" AND (command_line LIKE "%/node:%" OR command_line LIKE "%process call create%"))
OR (command_line LIKE "*Invoke-WmiMethod*" OR command_line LIKE "*Get-WmiObject*" OR command_line LIKE "*gwmi*" OR command_line LIKE "*win32_process*")```

#### WMI: WMI Creation (DS0005): 
Monitor for newly constructed WMI objects that will execute malicious commands and payloads. 

Analytic 1 - WMI object creation events

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-WMI-Activity/Operational" 
(EventCode=5861 OR EventCode=5857 OR EventCode=5858) 
| eval CommandLine = coalesce(CommandLine, ParentCommandLine) 
| where (EventCode=5861 AND (CommandLine LIKE "*create*" OR CommandLine LIKE "*process*")) 
OR (EventCode=5857 AND (CommandLine LIKE "*exec*" OR CommandLine LIKE "*invoke*")) 
OR (EventCode=5858 AND (CommandLine LIKE "*payload*" OR CommandLine LIKE "*wmic*")) ```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that are used to perform remote behavior.

Analytic 1 - Look for wmic.exeexecution with arguments indicative of remote process creation.

``` index=windows_logs sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational
| eval CommandLine=coalesce(CommandLine, ParentCommandLine)
| eval ProcessName=lower(ProcessName), CommandLine=lower(CommandLine)
| search ProcessName IN ("wmic.exe", "powershell.exe", "wbemtool.exe", "wmiprvse.exe", "wmiadap.exe", "scrcons.exe")
| search CommandLine IN ("*process call create*", "*shadowcopy delete*", "*process start*", "*createobject*")
| stats count by _time, ComputerName, User, ProcessName, CommandLine, ParentProcessName, ParentCommandLine, dest, src_ip, dest_ip
| eval alert_message="Suspicious WMI activity detected: " + ProcessName + " executed by " + User + " on " + ComputerName + " with command: " + CommandLine
| where NOT (User="SYSTEM" OR ProcessName="wmiprvse.exe" OR CommandLine="*wmic shadowcopy delete*" AND src_ip="trusted_ip_range")
| table _time, ComputerName, User, ProcessName, CommandLine, ParentProcessName, ParentCommandLine, src_ip, dest_ip, alert_message```

