# Network Service Discovery (T1046)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts and local network infrastructure devices, including those that may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation. Common methods to acquire this information include port, vulnerability, and/or wordlist scans using tools that are brought onto a system.   

Within cloud environments, adversaries may attempt to discover services running on other cloud hosts. Additionally, if the cloud environment is connected to a on-premises environment, adversaries may be able to identify services running on non-cloud systems as well.

Within macOS environments, adversaries may use the native Bonjour application to discover services running on other macOS hosts within a network. The Bonjour mDNSResponder daemon automatically registers and advertises a host’s registered services on the network. For example, adversaries can use a mDNS query (such as ```dns-sd -B _ssh._tcp .```) to find other systems broadcasting the ssh service.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT39 (G0087)
- BlackTech (G0098)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Agrius (G1030)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- DarkVishnya (G0105)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Rocke (G0106)
- APT32 (G0050)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Chimera (G0114)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Suckfly (G0039)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Ember Bear (G1003)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Normal, benign system and network events from legitimate remote service scanning may be uncommon, depending on the environment and how they are used. Legitimate open port and vulnerability scanning may be conducted within the environment and will need to be deconflicted with any detection capabilities developed. Network intrusion detection systems can also be used to identify scanning activity. Monitor for process use of the networks and inspect intra-network flows to detect port scans.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. It should be noted that when a host/ port/ service scan is performed from a compromised machine, a single machine makes multiple calls to other hosts in the network to identify live hosts and services.

After compromising an initial machine, adversaries commonly attempt to laterally move across the network. The first step to attempt the Lateral Movement (TA0008) often involves conducting host identification, port and service scans on the internal network via the compromised machine using tools such as Nmap, Cobalt Strike, etc.

Note: It should be noted that when a host/ port/ service scan is performed from a compromised machine, a single machine makes multiple calls to other hosts in the network to identify live hosts and services. This can be detected using the following query

Analytic 1 - Identifying Port Scanning Activity

```sourcetype='firewall_logs' dest_ip='internal_subnet' | stats dc(dest_port) as pcount by src_ip | where pcount >5```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts, including those that may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation.

#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Enumeration (DS0025): 
Cloud service discovery techniques will likely occur throughout an operation where an adversary is targeting cloud-based systems and services. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities based on the information obtained.
Normal, benign system and network events that look like cloud service discovery may be uncommon, depending on the environment and how they are used. Monitor cloud service usage for anomalous behavior that may indicate adversarial presence within the environment.

