# Scheduled Task (T1053.005)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse the Windows Task Scheduler to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. There are multiple ways to access the Task Scheduler in Windows. The schtasks utility can be run directly on the command line, or the Task Scheduler can be opened through the GUI within the Administrator Tools section of the Control Panel. In some cases, adversaries have used a .NET wrapper for the Windows Task Scheduler, and alternatively, adversaries have used the Windows netapi32 library and Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) (WMI) to create a scheduled task. Adversaries may also utilize the Powershell Cmdlet `Invoke-CimMethod`, which leverages WMI class `PS_ScheduledTask` to create a scheduled task via an XML path.

An adversary may use Windows Task Scheduler to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for persistence. The Windows Task Scheduler can also be abused to conduct remote Execution as part of Lateral Movement and/or to run a process under the context of a specified account (such as SYSTEM). Similar to System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218), adversaries have also abused the Windows Task Scheduler to potentially mask one-time execution under signed/trusted system processes.

Adversaries may also create "hidden" scheduled tasks (i.e. Hide Artifacts (T1564)) that may not be visible to defender tools and manual queries used to enumerate tasks. Specifically, an adversary may hide a task from `schtasks /query` and the Task Scheduler by deleting the associated Security Descriptor (SD) registry value (where deletion of this value must be completed using SYSTEM permissions). Adversaries may also employ alternate methods to hide tasks, such as altering the metadata (e.g., `Index` value) within associated registry keys. 

## Parent Technique
- Scheduled Task/Job (T1053)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT3 (G0022)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Silence (G0091)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- Molerats (G0021)
- APT29 (G0016)
- APT39 (G0087)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Rancor (G0075)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Machete (G0095)
- APT42 (G1044)
- FIN10 (G0051)
- Naikon (G0019)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- APT33 (G0064)
- OilRig (G0049)
- APT38 (G0082)
- menuPass (G0045)
- APT-C-36 (G0099)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- BITTER (G1002)
- Confucius (G0142)
- APT37 (G0067)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Audit (M1047)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection
Monitor process execution from the ```svchost.exe``` in Windows 10 and the Windows Task Scheduler ```taskeng.exe``` for older versions of Windows.  If scheduled tasks are not used for persistence, then the adversary is likely to remove the task when the action is complete. Monitor Windows Task Scheduler stores in %systemroot%\System32\Tasks for change entries related to scheduled tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc.

Configure event logging for scheduled task creation and changes by enabling the "Microsoft-Windows-TaskScheduler/Operational" setting within the event logging service.  Several events will then be logged on scheduled task activity, including: 

* Event ID 106 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 - Scheduled task registered
* Event ID 140 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 / 4702 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task updated
* Event ID 141 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 / 4699 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task deleted
* Event ID 4698 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task created
* Event ID 4700 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task enabled
* Event ID 4701 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task disabled

Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current scheduled tasks. 

Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to perform these functions outside of typical system utilities. Tasks may also be created through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell, so additional logging may need to be configured to gather the appropriate data.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for newly constructed registry keys upon creation of new task. Deletion of values/keys in the registry may further indicate malicious activity.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Creations under Schedule Registry Key

```((source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="12") OR (sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security EventCode=4657) | search (registry_path="HKLM\\Software\\Microsoft\\Windows NT\\CurrentVersion\\Schedule\\TaskCache\\Tree\\*" OR registry_path="HKLM\\Software\\Microsoft\\Windows NT\\CurrentVersion\\Schedule\\TaskCache\\Tasks\\*")```



#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor Windows Task Scheduler stores in %systemroot%\System32\Tasks for change entries related to scheduled tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc.

Analytic 1 - Look for task file modifications with unusual parameters.

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security (EventCode=4663 OR file_path="C:\\Windows\\System32\\Tasks\\*")
| stats count by user host file_path action
| where action="Write" OR action="Create"```

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor Windows Task Scheduler stores in %systemroot%\System32\Tasks for change entries related to scheduled tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. In order to gain persistence, privilege escalation, or remote execution, an adversary may use the Windows Task Scheduler to schedule a command to be run at a specified time, date, and even host. Task Scheduler stores tasks as files in two locations - C:\Windows\Tasks (legacy) or C:\Windows\System32\Tasks. Accordingly, this analytic looks for the creation of task files in these two locations.

Analytic 1 - Look for new task files in %systemroot%\System32\Tasks.

```((source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="11") OR (sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security EventCode=4663)) (TargetFilename= "C:\\Windows\\System32\\Tasks\\*" OR TargetFilename  "C:\\Windows\\Tasks\\*")  AND
 Image!= "C:\\WINDOWS\\system32\\svchost.exe"```


#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that execute from the svchost.exe in Windows 10 and the Windows Task Scheduler taskeng.exe for older versions of Windows.  If scheduled tasks are not used for persistence, then the adversary is likely to remove the task when the action is complete. Look for instances of ``` schtasks.exe ``` running as processes. The ``` command_line ``` field is necessary to disambiguate between types of schtasks commands. These include the flags ```/create ```,``` /run```,``` /query```,``` /delete```,``` /change```, and ``` /end```.

Detection of the creation or modification of Scheduled Tasks with a suspicious script, extension or user writable path. Attackers may create or modify Scheduled Tasks for the persistent execution of malicious code. This detection focuses at the same time on EventIDs 4688 and 1 with process creation (SCHTASKS) and EventID 4698, 4702 for Scheduled Task creation/modification event log.

Analytic 1 - New processes whose parent processes are svchost.exe or taskeng.exe

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND (ParentImage="*svchost.exe*" OR ParentImage="*taskeng.exe*")```

Analytic 2 - Scheduled Task Creation or Modification Containing Suspicious Scripts, Extensions or User Writable Paths

```(
		(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") 
		OR 
		(source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") 
		CommandLine="*SCHTASKS*" 
		(CommandLine="*/CREATE*" OR CommandLine="*/CHANGE*")
	) 
	(
		(
			CommandLine="*.cmd*" OR 
			CommandLine="*.ps1*" OR 
			CommandLine="*.vbs*" OR 
			CommandLine="*.py*" OR 
			CommandLine="*.js*" OR 
			CommandLine="*.exe*" OR 
			CommandLine="*.bat*"
		) OR 
		(
			CommandLine="*javascript*" OR 
			CommandLine="*powershell*" OR 
			CommandLine="*wmic*" OR 
			CommandLine="*rundll32*" OR 
			CommandLine="*cmd*" OR 
			CommandLine="*cscript*" OR 
			CommandLine="*wscript*" OR 
			CommandLine="*regsvr32*" OR 
			CommandLine="*mshta*" OR 
			CommandLine="*bitsadmin*" OR 
			CommandLine="*certutil*" OR 
			CommandLine="*msiexec*" OR 
			CommandLine="*javaw*"
		) OR 
		(
			CommandLine="*%APPDATA%*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\AppData\\Roaming*" OR 
			CommandLine="*%PUBLIC%*" OR 
			CommandLine="*C:\\Users\\Public*" OR 
			CommandLine="*%ProgramData%*" OR 
			CommandLine="*C:\\ProgramData*" OR 
			CommandLine="*%TEMP%*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\AppData\\Local\\Temp*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\Windows\\PLA\\System*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\tasks*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\Registration\\CRMLog*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\FxsTmp*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\spool\\drivers\\color*" OR 
			CommandLine="*\\tracing*"
		)
	)```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for commands being executed via schtasks or other utilities related to task scheduling.

Analytic 1 - Look for schtasks.exe execution with arguments indicative of task creation/modification.

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Powershell (EventCode=4104 OR command="schtasks.exe")
| stats count by user host process_name command_line
| where Image="schtasks.exe" OR command_line="*schtasks*"```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Look for RPC traffic after being mapped, which implies a destination port of at least 49152. If network inspection is available via packet captures or a NIDS, then traffic through the ```ITaskSchedulerService``` interface can be detected. Microsoft has a list of the possible methods that are implemented for the ```ITaskSchedulerService``` interface, which may be useful in differentiating read and query operations from creations and modifications.

When scheduled tasks are created remotely, Windows uses RPC (135/tcp) to communicate with the Task Scheduler on the remote machine. Once an RPC connection is established, the client communicates with the Scheduled Tasks endpoint, which runs within the service group netsvcs. With packet capture and the right packet decoders or byte-stream based signatures, remote invocations of these functions can be identified.
Certain strings can be identifiers of the schtasks, by looking up the interface UUID of ITaskSchedulerService in different formats

- UUID ```86d35949-83c9-4044-b424-db363231fd0c``` (decoded)
- Hex ```49 59 d3 86 c9 83 44 40 b4 24 db 36 32 31 fd 0c``` (raw)
- ASCII ```IYD@$621``` (printable bytes only)

This identifier is present three times during the RPC request phase. Any sensor that has access to the byte code as raw, decoded, or ASCII could implement an analytic.

Analytic 1 - Look for RPC traffic with ITaskSchedulerService interface usage.

```sourcetype=Netflow OR sourcetype=PacketCapture OR sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security EventCode=5156 
| search (dest_port=135 OR dest_port=5985 OR dest_port=5986) AND (protocol="tcp" OR protocol="udp")  AND (Image="taskeng.exe" OR Image="schtasks.exe")
| stats count by src_ip dest_ip dest_port
| where count > threshold ```

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Creation (DS0003): 
Monitor for newly constructed scheduled jobs by enabling the "Microsoft-Windows-TaskScheduler/Operational" setting within the event logging service.  Several events will then be logged on scheduled task activity, including Event ID 106 on Windows 7 and Server 2008 R2 for scheduled task registration. For Windows 10 and Server 2016, the relevant events are also logged in the Windows Security event channel after enabling the auditing of other object access events. These include:

- Event ID 4698: A scheduled task was created.
- Event ID 4699: A scheduled task was deleted.
- Event ID 4700: A scheduled task was enabled.
- Event ID 4701: A scheduled task was disabled.
- Event ID 4702: A scheduled task was updated.

Note: Detection of the creation or modification of Scheduled Tasks with a suspicious script, extension or user writable path. Attackers may create or modify Scheduled Tasks for the persistent execution of malicious code. This detection focuses at the same time on EventIDs 4688 and 1 with process creation (SCHTASKS) and EventID 4698, 4702 for Scheduled Task creation/modification event log.

Analytic 1 - New schedule tasks whose content includes suspicious scripts, extensions or user writable path

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4698, 4702, 4699, 4700, 4701)) | where
(JobContent LIKE '%.cmd%' OR JobContent LIKE '%.ps1%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%.vbs%' OR JobContent LIKE '%.py%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%.js%' OR JobContent LIKE '%.exe%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%.bat%' OR JobContent LIKE '%javascript%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%powershell%' OR JobContent LIKE '%wmic%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%rundll32%' OR JobContent LIKE '%cmd%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%cscript%' OR JobContent LIKE '%wscript%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%regsvr32%' OR JobContent LIKE '%mshta%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%bitsadmin%' OR JobContent LIKE '%certutil%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%msiexec%' OR JobContent LIKE '%javaw%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%[%]APPDATA[%]%' OR JobContent LIKE '%\\AppData\\Roaming%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%[%]PUBLIC[%]%' OR JobContent LIKE '%C:\\Users\\Public%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%[%]ProgramData[%]%' OR JobContent LIKE '%C:\\ProgramData%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%[%]TEMP[%]%' OR JobContent LIKE '%\\AppData\\Local\\Temp%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%\\Windows\\PLA\\System%' OR JobContent LIKE '%\\tasks%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%\\Registration\\CRMLog%' OR JobContent LIKE '%\\FxsTmp%' OR
   JobContent LIKE '%\\spool\\drivers\\color%' OR JobContent LIKE '%\\tracing%')```


