# Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse command and script interpreters to execute commands, scripts, or binaries. These interfaces and languages provide ways of interacting with computer systems and are a common feature across many different platforms. Most systems come with some built-in command-line interface and scripting capabilities, for example, macOS and Linux distributions include some flavor of Unix Shell (T1059.004) while Windows installations include the Windows Command Shell (T1059.003) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

There are also cross-platform interpreters such as Python (T1059.006), as well as those commonly associated with client applications such as JavaScript (T1059.007) and Visual Basic (T1059.005).

Adversaries may abuse these technologies in various ways as a means of executing arbitrary commands. Commands and scripts can be embedded in Initial Access (TA0001) payloads delivered to victims as lure documents or as secondary payloads downloaded from an existing C2. Adversaries may also execute commands through interactive terminals/shells, as well as utilize various Remote Services (T1021) in order to achieve remote Execution.

## Sub-techniques
- JavaScript (T1059.007)
- AppleScript (T1059.002)
- AutoHotKey & AutoIT (T1059.010)
- Cloud API (T1059.009)
- Network Device CLI (T1059.008)
- PowerShell (T1059.001)
- Unix Shell (T1059.004)
- Lua (T1059.011)
- Python (T1059.006)
- Windows Command Shell (T1059.003)
- Hypervisor CLI (T1059.012)
- Visual Basic (T1059.005)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- FIN5 (G0053)
- APT19 (G0073)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- Whitefly (G0107)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Windigo (G0124)
- OilRig (G0049)

## Mitigations
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)
- Code Signing (M1045)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Audit (M1047)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Command-line and scripting activities can be captured through proper logging of process execution with command-line arguments. This information can be useful in gaining additional insight to adversaries' actions through how they use native processes or custom tools. Also monitor for loading of modules associated with specific languages.

If scripting is restricted for normal users, then any attempt to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

Scripts are likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for script execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to network and system information discovery, collection, or other scriptable post-compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the source script.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system that would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

Analytic 1 - Look for attempts to enable scripts on the system.

``` index=windows (EventCode=1 OR EventCode=4688 OR EventCode=4103 OR EventCode=4104) (CommandLine="*script*")
| search script_name IN ("*.ps1", "*.sh", "*.py", "*.rb", "*.js", "*.vbs")
| eval suspicious_script=if(like(script_name, "%.sh") AND hour(_time) NOT BETWEEN 8 AND 18, "Yes", "No")
| where suspicious_script="Yes"```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor log files for process execution through command-line and scripting activities. This information can be useful in gaining additional insight to adversaries' actions through how they use native processes or custom tools. Also monitor for loading of modules associated with specific languages.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual command and scripting process creation.

``` (sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=sysmon OR sourcetype=linux_secure OR sourcetype=linux_audit OR sourcetype=mac_os_log OR sourcetype=azure:audit OR sourcetype=o365:audit)
(EventCode=4688 OR EventID=1 OR _raw=*sh* OR _raw=*python* OR _raw=*powershell* OR _raw=*cmd* OR _raw=*script* OR _raw=*wscript* OR _raw=*bash*)```

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such as environment variables, image name, user/owner, or other information that may reveal abuse of system features. For example, consider monitoring for Windows Event ID (EID) 400, which shows the version of PowerShell executing in the ```EngineVersion``` field (which may also be relevant to detecting a potential Downgrade Attack (T1562.010)) as well as if PowerShell is running locally or remotely in the ```HostName``` field. Furthermore, EID 400 may indicate the start time and EID 403 indicates the end time of a PowerShell session.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for events associated with scripting execution, such as the loading of modules associated with scripting languages (ex: JScript.dll or vbscript.dll).

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual module loads associated with scripting languages.

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational
| search EventCode=7 ImageLoaded IN ("C:\\Windows\\System32\\JScript.dll", "C:\\Windows\\System32\\vbscript.dll", "System.Management.Automation.dll")```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor command-line arguments for script execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to network and system information Discovery, Collection, or other scriptable post-compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the source script. Scripts are likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. 

Analytic 1 - Suspicious script execution

``` (sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR OR sourcetype=sysmon OR sourcetype=linux_secure OR sourcetype=linux_audit OR sourcetype=mac_os_log OR sourcetype=azure:audit OR sourcetype=o365:audit)
| search Image IN ("bash", "sh", "cmd", "powershell", "python", "java", "perl", "ruby", "node", "osascript", "wmic")
| eval suspicious_cmds=if(like(command_line, "%Invoke-Obfuscation%") OR like(command_line, "%-EncodedCommand%") OR like(command_line, "%IEX%") OR like(command_line, "%wget%") OR like(command_line, "%curl%"), "Yes", "No")```

