# Windows Command Shell (T1059.003)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse the Windows command shell for execution. The Windows command shell (cmd) is the primary command prompt on Windows systems. The Windows command prompt can be used to control almost any aspect of a system, with various permission levels required for different subsets of commands. The command prompt can be invoked remotely via Remote Services (T1021) such as SSH (T1021.004).

Batch files (ex: .bat or .cmd) also provide the shell with a list of sequential commands to run, as well as normal scripting operations such as conditionals and loops. Common uses of batch files include long or repetitive tasks, or the need to run the same set of commands on multiple systems.

Adversaries may leverage cmd to execute various commands and payloads. Common uses include cmd to execute a single command, or abusing cmd interactively with input and output forwarded over a command and control channel.

## Parent Technique
- Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Suckfly (G0039)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Threat Group-1314 (G0028)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- Play (G1040)
- Nomadic Octopus (G0133)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Machete (G0095)
- APT38 (G0082)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- APT32 (G0050)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- FIN10 (G0051)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Metador (G1013)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Turla (G0010)
- Agrius (G1030)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Sowbug (G0054)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- TA577 (G1037)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- APT37 (G0067)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- menuPass (G0045)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- APT18 (G0026)
- TA551 (G0127)
- Rancor (G0075)
- APT1 (G0006)
- Silence (G0091)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- admin@338 (G0018)
- TA505 (G0092)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Usage of the Windows command shell may be common on administrator, developer, or power user systems depending on job function. If scripting is restricted for normal users, then any attempt to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

Scripts are likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for script execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to network and system information Discovery, Collection, or other scriptable post-compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the source script.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse the Windows command shell for execution. Usage of the Windows command shell may be common on administrator, developer, or power user systems depending on job function. If scripting is restricted for normal users, then any attempt to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual command shell execution.

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security
| search (EventCode=4688 OR EventCode=4689) process_name="cmd.exe"
| eval suspicious_cmd=if(like(command_line, "%/c%") OR like(command_line, "%.bat%") OR like(command_line, "%.cmd%"), "Yes", "No")
| where suspicious_cmd="Yes"```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may abuse the Windows command shell for execution.

Note: Try an Analytic by creating a baseline of parent processes of cmd seen over the last 30 days and a list of parent processes of cmd seen today. Parent processes in the baseline are removed from the set of parent processes seen today, leaving a list of new parent processes. This analytic attempts to identify suspicious programs spawning cmd by looking for programs that do not normally create cmd.  It is very common for some programs to spawn cmd as a subprocess, for example to run batch files or Windows commands. However, many processes don’t routinely launch a command prompt - e.g., Microsoft Outlook. A command prompt being launched from a process that normally doesn’t launch command prompts could be the result of malicious code being injected into that process, or of an attacker replacing a legitimate program with a malicious one.

Analytic 1 - Unusual Command Execution

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND CommandLine=“*cmd.exe*” AND (CommandLine REGEXP "./c.*" OR CommandLine REGEXP ".*._ \/k.*")```

