# Process Discovery (T1057)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get information about running processes on a system. Information obtained could be used to gain an understanding of common software/applications running on systems within the network. Administrator or otherwise elevated access may provide better process details. Adversaries may use the information from Process Discovery (T1057) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

In Windows environments, adversaries could obtain details on running processes using the Tasklist utility via cmd or ```Get-Process``` via PowerShell (T1059.001). Information about processes can also be extracted from the output of Native API (T1106) calls such as ```CreateToolhelp32Snapshot```. In Mac and Linux, this is accomplished with the ```ps``` command. Adversaries may also opt to enumerate processes via `/proc`. ESXi also supports use of the `ps` command, as well as `esxcli system process list`.

On network devices, Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands such as `show processes` can be used to display current running processes.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Windshift (G0112)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- APT1 (G0006)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Play (G1040)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Andariel (G0138)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Molerats (G0021)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Turla (G0010)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- Poseidon Group (G0033)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Inception (G0100)
- OilRig (G0049)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Winnti Group (G0044)
- APT38 (G0082)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Normal, benign system and network events that look like process discovery may be uncommon, depending on the environment and how they are used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for `show` commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to get information about running processes on a system. To be effective in deciphering malicious and benign activity, the full command line is essential. Similarly, having information about the parent process can help with making decisions and tuning to an environment.

Because these commands are built in, they may be run frequently by power users or even by normal users. Thus, an analytic looking at this information should have well-defined white- or blacklists, and should consider looking at an anomaly detection approach, so that this information can be learned dynamically.
Within the built-in Windows Commands:

- hostname
- ipconfig
- net
- quser
- qwinsta
- sc with flags query, queryex, qc
- systeminfo
- tasklist
- dsquery
- whoami
Note: To be effective in deciphering malicious and benign activity, the full command line is essential. Similarly, having information about the parent process can help with making decisions and tuning to an environment.

Analytic 1 - Host Discovery Commands

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") (Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\hostname.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\ipconfig.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\net.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\quser.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\qwinsta.exe" OR (Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\sc.exe" AND (CommandLine="* query *" OR CommandLine="* qc *")) OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\systeminfo.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\tasklist.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\whoami.exe")|stats values(Image) as "Images" values(CommandLine) as "Command Lines" by ComputerName```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls may attempt to get information about running processes on a system. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that may attempt to get information about running processes on a system.

