# GUI Input Capture (T1056.002)

## Description
Adversaries may mimic common operating system GUI components to prompt users for credentials with a seemingly legitimate prompt. When programs are executed that need additional privileges than are present in the current user context, it is common for the operating system to prompt the user for proper credentials to authorize the elevated privileges for the task (ex: Bypass User Account Control (T1548.002)).

Adversaries may mimic this functionality to prompt users for credentials with a seemingly legitimate prompt for a number of reasons that mimic normal usage, such as a fake installer requiring additional access or a fake malware removal suite. This type of prompt can be used to collect credentials via various languages such as AppleScript (T1059.002) and PowerShell (T1059.001). On Linux systems adversaries may launch dialog boxes prompting users for credentials from malicious shell scripts or the command line (i.e. Unix Shell (T1059.004)).

Adversaries may also mimic common software authentication requests, such as those from browsers or email clients. This may also be paired with user activity monitoring (i.e., Browser Information Discovery (T1217) and/or Application Window Discovery (T1010)) to spoof prompts when users are naturally accessing sensitive sites/data.

## Parent Technique
- Input Capture (T1056)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- RedCurl (G1039)
- FIN4 (G0085)

## Mitigations
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection
Monitor process execution for unusual programs as well as malicious instances of Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059) that could be used to prompt users for credentials. For example, command/script history including abnormal parameters (such as requests for credentials and/or strings related to creating password prompts) may be malicious. 

Inspect and scrutinize input prompts for indicators of illegitimacy, such as non-traditional banners, text, timing, and/or sources. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments, such as requests for credentials and/or strings related to creating password prompts that may be malicious.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes 

