# Portable Executable Injection (T1055.002)

## Description
Adversaries may inject portable executables (PE) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. PE injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

PE injection is commonly performed by copying code (perhaps without a file on disk) into the virtual address space of the target process before invoking it via a new thread. The write can be performed with native Windows API calls such as ```VirtualAllocEx``` and ```WriteProcessMemory```, then invoked with ```CreateRemoteThread``` or additional code (ex: shellcode). The displacement of the injected code does introduce the additional requirement for functionality to remap memory references.  

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via PE injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

## Parent Technique
- Process Injection (T1055)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Rocke (G0106)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitoring Windows API calls indicative of the various types of code injection may generate a significant amount of data and may not be directly useful for defense unless collected under specific circumstances for known bad sequences of calls, since benign use of API functions may be common and difficult to distinguish from malicious behavior. Windows API calls such as ```CreateRemoteThread``` and those that can be used to modify memory within another process, such as ```VirtualAllocEx```/```WriteProcessMemory```, may be used for this technique.

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes being viewed that may inject portable executables (PE) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitoring Windows API calls indicative of the various types of code injection may generate a significant amount of data and may not be directly useful for defense unless collected under specific circumstances for known bad sequences of calls, since benign use of API functions may be common and difficult to distinguish from malicious behavior. Windows API calls such as ```CreateRemoteThread``` and those that can be used to modify memory within another process, such as ```VirtualAllocEx```/```WriteProcessMemory```, may be used for this technique.

#### Process: Process Modification (DS0009): 
Monitor for changes made to processes that may inject portable executables (PE) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

