# Credential API Hooking (T1056.004)

## Description
Adversaries may hook into Windows application programming interface (API) functions and Linux system functions to collect user credentials. Malicious hooking mechanisms may capture API or function calls that include parameters that reveal user authentication credentials. Unlike Keylogging (T1056.001), this technique focuses specifically on API functions that include parameters that reveal user credentials. 

In Windows, hooking involves redirecting calls to these functions and can be implemented via:

* **Hooks procedures**, which intercept and execute designated code in response to events such as messages, keystrokes, and mouse inputs.
* **Import address table (IAT) hooking**, which use modifications to a process’s IAT, where pointers to imported API functions are stored.
* **Inline hooking**, which overwrites the first bytes in an API function to redirect code flow.

In Linux and macOS, adversaries may hook into system functions via the `LD_PRELOAD` (Linux) or `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` (macOS) environment variables, which enables loading shared libraries into a program’s address space. For example, an adversary may capture credentials by hooking into the `libc read` function leveraged by SSH or SCP.

## Parent Technique
- Input Capture (T1056)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- PLATINUM (G0068)

## Detection
Monitor for calls to the `SetWindowsHookEx` and `SetWinEventHook` functions, which install a hook procedure. Also consider analyzing hook chains (which hold pointers to hook procedures for each type of hook) using tools or by programmatically examining internal kernel structures.

Rootkits detectors can also be used to monitor for various types of hooking activity.

Verify integrity of live processes by comparing code in memory to that of corresponding static binaries, specifically checking for jumps and other instructions that redirect code flow. Also consider taking snapshots of newly started processes to compare the in-memory IAT to the real addresses of the referenced functions.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Verify integrity of live processes by comparing code in memory to that of corresponding static binaries, specifically checking for jumps and other instructions that redirect code flow.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor library metadata, such as a hash, and compare libraries that are loaded at process execution time against previous executions to detect differences that do not correlate with patching or updates. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that are added to absolute paths of shared libraries such as `LD_PRELOAD` on Linux (such as `/etc/ld.so.preload`) and `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` on macOS.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes to files associated with loading shared libraries such as `LD_PRELOAD` on Linux (such as `/etc/ld.so.preload`) and `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` on macOS.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments associated with modifications to variables and files associated with loading shared libraries such as `LD_PRELOAD` on Linux and `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` on macOS.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls to the `SetWindowsHookEx` and `SetWinEventHook` functions, which install a hook procedure. Also consider analyzing hook chains (which hold pointers to hook procedures for each type of hook) using tools or by programmatically examining internal kernel structures.

