# At (T1053.002)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse the at utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The at utility exists as an executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for scheduling tasks at a specified time and date. Although deprecated in favor of Scheduled Task (T1053.005)'s schtasks in Windows environments, using at requires that the Task Scheduler service be running, and the user to be logged on as a member of the local Administrators group. In addition to explicitly running the `at` command, adversaries may also schedule a task with at by directly leveraging the Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) `Win32_ScheduledJob` WMI class.

On Linux and macOS, at may be invoked by the superuser as well as any users added to the ```at.allow``` file. If the ```at.allow``` file does not exist, the ```at.deny``` file is checked. Every username not listed in ```at.deny``` is allowed to invoke at. If the ```at.deny``` exists and is empty, global use of at is permitted. If neither file exists (which is often the baseline) only the superuser is allowed to use at.

Adversaries may use at to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for Persistence (TA0003). at can also be abused to conduct remote Execution (TA0002) as part of Lateral Movement (TA0008) and/or to run a process under the context of a specified account (such as SYSTEM).

In Linux environments, adversaries may also abuse at to break out of restricted environments by using a task to spawn an interactive system shell or to run system commands. Similarly, at may also be used for Privilege Escalation (TA0004) if the binary is allowed to run as superuser via ```sudo```.

## Parent Technique
- Scheduled Task/Job (T1053)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- APT18 (G0026)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)

## Mitigations
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor process execution from the svchost.exe in Windows 10 and the Windows Task Scheduler taskeng.exe for older versions of Windows.  If scheduled tasks are not used for persistence, then the adversary is likely to remove the task when the action is complete. Monitor Windows Task Scheduler stores in %systemroot%\System32\Tasks for change entries related to scheduled tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc.

Configure event logging for scheduled task creation and changes by enabling the "Microsoft-Windows-TaskScheduler/Operational" setting within the event logging service.  Several events will then be logged on scheduled task activity, including: 

* Event ID 106 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 - Scheduled task registered
* Event ID 140 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 / 4702 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task updated
* Event ID 141 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 / 4699 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task deleted
* Event ID 4698 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task created
* Event ID 4700 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task enabled
* Event ID 4701 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task disabled

Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current scheduled tasks. 

Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to perform these functions outside of typical system utilities. Tasks may also be created through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001), so additional logging may need to be configured to gather the appropriate data.

In Linux and macOS environments, monitor scheduled task creation using command-line invocation. Legitimate scheduled tasks may be created during installation of new software or through system administration functions. Look for changes to tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. 

Review all jobs using the ```atq``` command and ensure IP addresses stored in the ```SSH_CONNECTION``` and ```SSH_CLIENT``` variables, machines that created the jobs, are trusted hosts. All at jobs are stored in ```/var/spool/cron/atjobs/```.

Suspicious program execution through scheduled tasks may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control (TA0011), learning details about the environment through Discovery (TA0007), and Lateral Movement (TA0008).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to create/modify tasks. Tasks may also be created through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001), so additional logging may need to be configured to gather the appropriate data.

Analytic 1 - Linux Command Execution 

``` index=linux_logs sourcetype=syslog "at" 
| rex "user=(?<user>\w+)"
```

Analytic 2 - Windows Command Execution 
``` index=windows_logs sourcetype=WinEventLog:System EventCode=4698 TaskName="at*"
| where NOT (user="SYSTEM" AND TaskName="\\Microsoft\\Windows\\Defrag\\ScheduledDefrag")
```

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Creation (DS0003): 
Monitor for newly constructed scheduled jobs. If scheduled tasks are not used for persistence, then the adversary is likely to remove the task when the action is complete. On Windows, enable the "Microsoft-Windows-TaskScheduler/Operational" setting within the event logging service where several events will then be logged on scheduled task activity, including:

* Event ID 106 on Windows 7, Server 2008 R2 - Scheduled task registered
* Event ID 4698 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task created
* Event ID 4700 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task enabled
* Event ID 4701 on Windows 10, Server 2016 - Scheduled task disabled

Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current scheduled tasks. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. When AT.exe is used to remotely schedule tasks, Windows uses named pipes over SMB to communicate with the API on the remote machine. After authentication over SMB, the Named Pipe ```ATSVC``` is opened, over which the JobAdd function is called. On the remote host, the job files are created by the Task Scheduler and follow the convention ```C:\Windows\System32\AT<job\_id>```.

This pipe activity could be discovered with a network decoder, such as that in wireshark, that can inspect SMB traffic to identify the use of pipes. It could also be detected by looking for raw packet capture streams or from a custom sensor on the host that hooks the appropriate API functions. If no network or API level of visibility is possible, this traffic may inferred by looking at SMB connections over 445/tcp followed by the creation of files matching the pattern ```C:\Windows\System32\AT\<job_id\>```.

To detect AT via network traffic, a sensor is needed that has the ability to extract and decode PCAP information. Specifically, it needs to properly decode SMB and the functions that are implemented over it via NamedPipes. If a sensor meets these criteria, then the PCAP data needs to search for instances of the command ```JobAdd``` over the pipe ```ATSVC```, which is all implemented over Windows SMB 445/tcp.

Analytic 1 - Remotely Scheduled Tasks via AT

```index=network dest_port=445 protocol="smb" pipe="ATSVC" command="JobAdd"```


#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes with command-lines that create/modify or are executed from tasks. For example, on Windows tasks may spawn from `svchost.exe` or the Windows Task Scheduler `taskeng.exe` for older OS versions.  Suspicious program execution through scheduled tasks may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data. Instances of the process at.exe running imply the querying or creation of tasks. Although the command_line is not essential for the analytic to run, it is critical when identifying the command that was scheduled.

Analytic 1 - Scheduled Task

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="*at.exe"```

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
On Windows, monitor Windows Task Scheduler stores in `%systemroot%\System32\Tasks` for change entries related to scheduled tasks, especially those that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. On Linux and macOS, all at jobs are stored in ```/var/spool/cron/atjobs/```.

Analytic 1 - Look for task file modifications with unusual parameters. (Linux)

```  index=linux_logs sourcetype=syslog "at" "/var/spool/cron/atjobs/"
| rex "user=(?<user>\w+)"```

Analytic 2 - Look for task file modifications with unusual parameters. (Windows) 

``` index=windows_logs sourcetype=WinEventLog:System EventCode=4663 Object_Type="File"
| rex field=_raw "Object_Name=(?<file_path>[^\r\n]+)"
| search file_path="*at*"
| where NOT (user="SYSTEM" AND file_path="C:\\Windows\\Tasks\\allowed_task.job")```

