# Dynamic-link Library Injection (T1055.001)

## Description
Adversaries may inject dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. DLL injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.  

DLL injection is commonly performed by writing the path to a DLL in the virtual address space of the target process before loading the DLL by invoking a new thread. The write can be performed with native Windows API calls such as ```VirtualAllocEx``` and ```WriteProcessMemory```, then invoked with ```CreateRemoteThread``` (which calls the ```LoadLibrary``` API responsible for loading the DLL).  

Variations of this method such as reflective DLL injection (writing a self-mapping DLL into a process) and memory module (map DLL when writing into process) overcome the address relocation issue as well as the additional APIs to invoke execution (since these methods load and execute the files in memory by manually preforming the function of ```LoadLibrary```). 

Another variation of this method, often referred to as Module Stomping/Overloading or DLL Hollowing, may be leveraged to conceal injected code within a process. This method involves loading a legitimate DLL into a remote process then manually overwriting the module's ```AddressOfEntryPoint``` before starting a new thread in the target process. This variation allows attackers to hide malicious injected code by potentially backing its execution with a legitimate DLL file on disk. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via DLL injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

## Parent Technique
- Process Injection (T1055)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Turla (G0010)
- Malteiro (G1026)
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Putter Panda (G0024)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitoring Windows API calls indicative of the various types of code injection may generate a significant amount of data and may not be directly useful for defense unless collected under specific circumstances for known bad sequences of calls, since benign use of API functions may be common and difficult to distinguish from malicious behavior. Windows API calls such as ```CreateRemoteThread``` and those that can be used to modify memory within another process, such as ```VirtualAllocEx```/```WriteProcessMemory```, may be used for this technique.

Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process. 

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor for process memory inconsistencies compared to DLL files on disk by checking memory ranges against a known copy of the legitimate module.

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for process being viewed that may inject dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

#### Process: Process Modification (DS0009): 
Monitor for changes made to processes that may inject dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Injecting a malicious DLL into a process is a common adversary TTP. Although the ways of doing this are numerous, mavinject.exe is a commonly used tool for doing so because it roles up many of the necessary steps into one, and is available within Windows. Attackers may rename the executable, so we also use the common argument “INJECTRUNNING” as a related signature here. Whitelisting certain applications may be necessary to reduce noise for this analytic.

Analytic 1 - DLL Injection with Mavinject

```(source="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="C:\Windows\SysWOW64\mavinject.exe" OR Image="C:\Windows\System32\mavinject.exe" OR CommandLine="*/INJECTRUNNING*""```

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process. Sysmon Event ID 7 (Image loaded) can be used to monitor the loading of DLLs into processes. This is a particularly noisy event and can generate a large volume of data, so we recommend baselining and filtering out any known benign processes and module loads to help reduce the number of events that are produced.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitoring Windows API calls indicative of the various types of code injection may generate a significant amount of data and may not be directly useful for defense unless collected under specific circumstances for known bad sequences of calls, since benign use of API functions may be common and difficult to distinguish from malicious behavior. Windows API calls such as ```CreateRemoteThread``` and those that can be used to modify memory within another process, such as ```VirtualAllocEx```/```WriteProcessMemory```, may be used for this technique.

Search for remote thread creations that start at LoadLibraryA or LoadLibraryW. Depending on the tool, it may provide additional information about the DLL string that is an argument to the function. If there is any security software that legitimately injects DLLs, it must be carefully whitelisted.

Microsoft Windows allows for processes to remotely create threads within other processes of the same privilege level. This functionality is provided via the Windows API CreateRemoteThread. Both Windows and third-party software use this ability for legitimate purposes. For example, the Windows process csrss.exe creates threads in programs to send signals to registered callback routines. Both adversaries and host-based security software use this functionality to inject DLLs, but for very different purposes. An adversary is likely to inject into a program to evade defenses or bypass User Account Control, but a security program might do this to gain increased monitoring of API calls. One of the most common methods of DLL Injection is through the Windows API LoadLibrary.

- Allocate memory in the target program with VirtualAllocEx
- Write the name of the DLL to inject into this program with WriteProcessMemory
- Create a new thread and set its entry point to LoadLibrary using the API CreateRemoteThread.

This behavior can be detected by looking for thread creations across processes, and resolving the entry point to determine the function name. If the function is LoadLibraryA or LoadLibraryW, then the intent of the remote thread is clearly to inject a DLL. When this is the case, the source process must be examined so that it can be ignored when it is both expected and a trusted process.


