# PowerShell (T1059.001)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse PowerShell commands and scripts for execution. PowerShell is a powerful interactive command-line interface and scripting environment included in the Windows operating system. Adversaries can use PowerShell to perform a number of actions, including discovery of information and execution of code. Examples include the ```Start-Process``` cmdlet which can be used to run an executable and the ```Invoke-Command``` cmdlet which runs a command locally or on a remote computer (though administrator permissions are required to use PowerShell to connect to remote systems).

PowerShell may also be used to download and run executables from the Internet, which can be executed from disk or in memory without touching disk.

A number of PowerShell-based offensive testing tools are available, including Empire,  PowerSploit, PoshC2, and PSAttack.

PowerShell commands/scripts can also be executed without directly invoking the ```powershell.exe``` binary through interfaces to PowerShell's underlying ```System.Management.Automation``` assembly DLL exposed through the .NET framework and Windows Common Language Interface (CLI).

## Parent Technique
- Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- WIRTE (G0090)
- APT42 (G1044)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT19 (G0073)
- APT28 (G0007)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- MoustachedBouncer (G1019)
- CopyKittens (G0052)
- Thrip (G0076)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- Play (G1040)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Inception (G0100)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Akira (G1024)
- APT29 (G0016)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- FIN10 (G0051)
- Gallmaker (G0084)
- Turla (G0010)
- Silence (G0091)
- Molerats (G0021)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- APT3 (G0022)
- DarkVishnya (G0105)
- TA459 (G0062)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- TA505 (G0092)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- APT33 (G0064)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Tonto Team (G0131)
- APT38 (G0082)
- DarkHydrus (G0079)
- CURIUM (G1012)
- GOLD SOUTHFIELD (G0115)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Poseidon Group (G0033)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Confucius (G0142)
- Nomadic Octopus (G0133)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Code Signing (M1045)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
If proper execution policy is set, adversaries will likely be able to define their own execution policy if they obtain administrator or system access, either through the Registry or at the command line. This change in policy on a system may be a way to detect malicious use of PowerShell. If PowerShell is not used in an environment, then simply looking for PowerShell execution may detect malicious activity.

Monitor for loading and/or execution of artifacts associated with PowerShell specific assemblies, such as System.Management.Automation.dll (especially to unusual process names/locations).

It is also beneficial to turn on PowerShell logging to gain increased fidelity in what occurs during execution (which is applied to .NET invocations).  PowerShell 5.0 introduced enhanced logging capabilities, and some of those features have since been added to PowerShell 4.0. Earlier versions of PowerShell do not have many logging features. An organization can gather PowerShell execution details in a data analytic platform to supplement it with other data.

Consider monitoring for Windows event ID (EID) 400, which shows the version of PowerShell executing in the ```EngineVersion``` field (which may also be relevant to detecting a potential Downgrade Attack (T1562.010)) as well as if PowerShell is running locally or remotely in the ```HostName``` field. Furthermore, EID 400 may indicate the start time and EID 403 indicates the end time of a PowerShell session.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system that would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

Analytic 1 - Script Block Logging Events

<code> (source=WinEventLog:"Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell/Operational" EventID="4104” AND Image="powershell.exe" AND (CommandLine="\-enc*" OR CommandLine="*-ep bypass*" OR CommandLine="*-noni*")<code>

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may abuse PowerShell commands and scripts for execution. PowerShell is a scripting environment included with Windows that is used by both attackers and administrators. Execution of PowerShell scripts in most Windows versions is opaque and not typically secured by antivirus which makes using PowerShell an easy way to circumvent security measures. This analytic detects execution of PowerShell scripts.

Powershell can be used to hide monitored command line execution such as:

net use
sc start

Note: 
- The logic for Analytic 1 is based around detecting on non-interactive Powershell sessions (i.e., those not launched by a user through explorer.exe). This may lead to false positives when used in a production environment, so we recommend tuning any such analytics by including additional logic (e.g., looking for suspicious parent processes) that helps filter such events.
- The logic for Analytic 2 is based around detecting on remote Powershell sessions. PowerShell can be used over WinRM to remotely run commands on a host. When a remote PowerShell session starts, svchost.exe executes wsmprovhost.exe.

Analytic 1 - Non-interactive Powershell Sessions

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="powershell.exe" AND ParentImage!="explorer.exe"```

Analytic 2 - Remote Powershell Sessions 

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="wsmprovhost.exe" AND ParentImage="svchost.exe"```

Analytic 3 - Powershell Execution

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") Image="C:\\Windows\\*\\powershell.exe" ParentImage!="C:\\Windows\\explorer.exe"|stats values(CommandLine) as "Command Lines" values(ParentImage) as "Parent Images" by ComputerName```


#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Consider monitoring for Windows event ID (EID) 400, which shows the version of PowerShell executing in the ```EngineVersion``` field (which may also be relevant to detecting a potential Downgrade Attack (T1562.010)) as well as if PowerShell is running locally or remotely in the ```HostName``` field. Furthermore, EID 400 may indicate the start time and EID 403 indicates the end time of a PowerShell session.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
If proper execution policy is set, adversaries will likely be able to define their own execution policy if they obtain administrator or system access, either through the Registry or at the command line. This change in policy on a system may be a way to detect malicious use of PowerShell. If PowerShell is not used in an environment, then simply looking for PowerShell execution may detect malicious activity. It is also beneficial to turn on PowerShell logging to gain increased fidelity in what occurs during execution (which is applied to .NET invocations).  PowerShell 5.0 introduced enhanced logging capabilities, and some of those features have since been added to PowerShell 4.0. Earlier versions of PowerShell do not have many logging features. An organization can gather PowerShell execution details in a data analytic platform to supplement it with other data.

PowerShell can be used over WinRM to remotely run commands on a host. When a remote PowerShell session starts, svchost.exe executes wsmprovhost.exe

For this to work, certain registry keys must be set, and the WinRM service must be enabled. The PowerShell command Enter-PSSession -ComputerName \<RemoteHost\> creates a remote PowerShell session.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual PowerShell execution.

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell/Operational
| search EventCode=4104
| eval suspicious_cmds=if(like(Message, "%-EncodedCommand%") OR like(Message, "%Invoke-Expression%") OR like(Message, "%IEX%") OR like(Message, "%DownloadFile%"), "Yes", "No")
| where suspicious_cmds="Yes"```

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for loading and/or execution of artifacts associated with PowerShell specific assemblies, such as System.Management.Automation.dll (especially to unusual process names/locations).

Analytic 1 - Processes loading PowerShell assemblies

```sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational
| search EventCode=7 ImageLoaded IN ("C:\\Windows\\System32\\System.Management.Automation.dll", "C:\\Windows\\System32\\powershell.exe")```

