# JavaScript (T1059.007)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse various implementations of JavaScript for execution. JavaScript (JS) is a platform-independent scripting language (compiled just-in-time at runtime) commonly associated with scripts in webpages, though JS can be executed in runtime environments outside the browser.

JScript is the Microsoft implementation of the same scripting standard. JScript is interpreted via the Windows Script engine and thus integrated with many components of Windows such as the Component Object Model (T1559.001) and Internet Explorer HTML Application (HTA) pages.

JavaScript for Automation (JXA) is a macOS scripting language based on JavaScript, included as part of Apple’s Open Scripting Architecture (OSA), that was introduced in OSX 10.10. Apple’s OSA provides scripting capabilities to control applications, interface with the operating system, and bridge access into the rest of Apple’s internal APIs. As of OSX 10.10, OSA only supports two languages, JXA and AppleScript (T1059.002). Scripts can be executed via the command line utility ```osascript```, they can be compiled into applications or script files via ```osacompile```, and they can be compiled and executed in memory of other programs by leveraging the OSAKit Framework.

Adversaries may abuse various implementations of JavaScript to execute various behaviors. Common uses include hosting malicious scripts on websites as part of a Drive-by Compromise (T1189) or downloading and executing these script files as secondary payloads. Since these payloads are text-based, it is also very common for adversaries to obfuscate their content as part of Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027).

## Parent Technique
- Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- Turla (G0010)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- MoustachedBouncer (G1019)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- TA577 (G1037)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Silence (G0091)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- TA505 (G0092)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Molerats (G0021)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- TA578 (G1038)
- Evilnum (G0120)
- Star Blizzard (G1033)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)

## Detection
Monitor for events associated with scripting execution, such as process activity, usage of the Windows Script Host (typically cscript.exe or wscript.exe), file activity involving scripts, or loading of modules associated with scripting languages (ex: JScript.dll). Scripting execution is likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to network and system information Discovery (TA0007), Collection (TA0009), or other programmable post-compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the source.

Monitor for execution of JXA through ```osascript``` and usage of ```OSAScript``` API that may be related to other suspicious behavior occurring on the system.

Understanding standard usage patterns is important to avoid a high number of false positives. If scripting is restricted for normal users, then any attempts to enable related components running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripting is not commonly used on a system, but enabled, execution running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions is suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for the loading of modules associated with scripting languages (ex: JScript.dll).

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for events associated with scripting execution, such as process activity, usage of the Windows Script Host (typically cscript.exe or wscript.exe), file activity involving scripts

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system that would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Scripting execution is likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to network and system information Discovery (TA0007), Collection (TA0009), or other programmable post-compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the source. Monitor for execution of JXA through ```osascript``` and usage of ```OSAScript``` API that may be related to other suspicious behavior occurring on the system. 

