# Ptrace System Calls (T1055.008)

## Description
Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Ptrace system call injection involves attaching to and modifying a running process. The ptrace system call enables a debugging process to observe and control another process (and each individual thread), including changing memory and register values. Ptrace system call injection is commonly performed by writing arbitrary code into a running process (ex: ```malloc```) then invoking that memory with ```PTRACE_SETREGS``` to set the register containing the next instruction to execute. Ptrace system call injection can also be done with ```PTRACE_POKETEXT```/```PTRACE_POKEDATA```, which copy data to a specific address in the target processes’ memory (ex: the current address of the next instruction).  

Ptrace system call injection may not be possible targeting processes that are non-child processes and/or have higher-privileges. 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via ptrace system call injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

## Parent Technique
- Process Injection (T1055)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitoring for Linux specific calls such as the ptrace system call should not generate large amounts of data due to their specialized nature, and can be a very effective method to detect some of the common process injection methods.       

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitoring for Linux specific calls such as the ptrace system call should not generate large amounts of data due to their specialized nature, and can be a very effective method to detect some of the common process injection methods.   

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes being viewed that may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

#### Process: Process Modification (DS0009): 
Monitor for changes made to processes that may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

