# Proc Memory (T1055.009)

## Description
Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the /proc filesystem in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Proc memory injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. 

Proc memory injection involves enumerating the memory of a process via the /proc filesystem (```/proc/[pid]```) then crafting a return-oriented programming (ROP) payload with available gadgets/instructions. Each running process has its own directory, which includes memory mappings. Proc memory injection is commonly performed by overwriting the target processes’ stack using memory mappings provided by the /proc filesystem. This information can be used to enumerate offsets (including the stack) and gadgets (or instructions within the program that can be used to build a malicious payload) otherwise hidden by process memory protections such as address space layout randomization (ASLR). Once enumerated, the target processes’ memory map within ```/proc/[pid]/maps``` can be overwritten using dd. 

Other techniques such as Dynamic Linker Hijacking (T1574.006) may be used to populate a target process with more available gadgets. Similar to Process Hollowing (T1055.012), proc memory injection may target child processes (such as a backgrounded copy of sleep). 

Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via proc memory injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

## Parent Technique
- Process Injection (T1055)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
File system monitoring can determine if /proc files are being modified. Users should not have permission to modify these in most cases. 

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to /proc files that may inject malicious code into processes via the /proc filesystem in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Users should not have permission to modify these in most cases. 

