# Visual Basic (T1059.005)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution. VB is a programming language created by Microsoft with interoperability with many Windows technologies such as Component Object Model (T1559.001) and the Native API (T1106) through the Windows API. Although tagged as legacy with no planned future evolutions, VB is integrated and supported in the .NET Framework and cross-platform .NET Core.

Derivative languages based on VB have also been created, such as Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and VBScript. VBA is an event-driven programming language built into Microsoft Office, as well as several third-party applications. VBA enables documents to contain macros used to automate the execution of tasks and other functionality on the host. VBScript is a default scripting language on Windows hosts and can also be used in place of JavaScript (T1059.007) on HTML Application (HTA) webpages served to Internet Explorer (though most modern browsers do not come with VBScript support).

Adversaries may use VB payloads to execute malicious commands. Common malicious usage includes automating execution of behaviors with VBScript or embedding VBA content into Spearphishing Attachment (T1566.001) payloads (which may also involve Mark-of-the-Web Bypass (T1553.005) to enable execution).

## Parent Technique
- Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- FIN4 (G0085)
- WIRTE (G0090)
- Windshift (G0112)
- Turla (G0010)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Rancor (G0075)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Transparent Tribe (G0134)
- Silence (G0091)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Machete (G0095)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- APT42 (G1044)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Confucius (G0142)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- Malteiro (G1026)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- OilRig (G0049)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- TA459 (G0062)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Molerats (G0021)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Inception (G0100)
- APT-C-36 (G0099)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- APT33 (G0064)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- APT39 (G0087)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)

## Detection
Monitor for events associated with VB execution, such as Office applications spawning processes, usage of the Windows Script Host (typically cscript.exe or wscript.exe), file activity involving VB payloads or scripts, or loading of modules associated with VB languages (ex: vbscript.dll). VB execution is likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. Monitor processes and command-line arguments for execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to network and system information Discovery (TA0007), Collection (TA0009), or other programable post-compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the source.

Understanding standard usage patterns is important to avoid a high number of false positives. If VB execution is restricted for normal users, then any attempts to enable related components running on a system would be considered suspicious. If VB execution is not commonly used on a system, but enabled, execution running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions is suspicious. Payloads and scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for the loading of modules associated with VB languages (ex: vbscript.dll).

Note: For Windows, Sysmon Event ID 7 (Image loaded) can be used to alert on the loading of DLL modules (e.g., vbscript.dll) associated with Visual Basic into processes. Due to the high frequency of image load operations, Event ID 7 can generate a large volume of events. Therefore, we recommend tuning the Sysmon configuration file to exclude common, benign image loads that may result in false positives. This query focuses on monitoring the loading of specific VB-related modules such as ```vbe6.dll```, ```vbscript.dll```, and ```vba7.dll```, which are commonly associated with VB script execution.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual VB module loads.

```sourcetype=windows_security OR sourcetype=wineventlog OR sourcetype=linux_secure OR sourcetype=macos_secure
| search (module="vbe6.dll" OR module="vbscript.dll" OR module="vba7.dll")
| eval suspicious_module=if(like(module, "vbe6.dll" OR "vbscript.dll" OR "vba7.dll"), "Yes", "No")
| where suspicious_module="Yes" ```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual VB execution.

```sourcetype=wineventlog OR sourcetype=linux_secure OR sourcetype=macos_secure
| search (command="cscript.exe" OR command="wscript.exe" OR command=".vbs" OR command=".vba" OR command=".vbe")
| eval suspicious_cmd=if(like(command_line, "%.vbs" OR "%.vba" OR "%.vbe"), "Yes", "No")
| where suspicious_cmd="Yes" ```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for the creation of processes related to VBScript and VBA execution. Monitor for events associated with VB execution, such as Office applications spawning processes, usage of the Windows Script Host (typically cscript.exe or wscript.exe). VB execution is likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used.

Note: This query monitors for the creation of processes like cscript.exe, wscript.exe, excel.exe, and winword.exe, which are commonly used to execute VB scripts. It highlights instances where these processes are initiated, providing insight into potential VB script execution.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual VB process creation.

```sourcetype=windows_security OR sourcetype=wineventlog OR sourcetype=linux_secure OR sourcetype=macos_secure
| search (process="cscript.exe" OR process="wscript.exe" OR process="excel.exe" OR process="winword.exe")
| eval suspicious_process=if(like(process, "cscript.exe" OR "wscript.exe" OR "excel.exe" OR "winword.exe"), "Yes", "No")
| where suspicious_process="Yes" ```

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system that would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

Note: Be aware of VBScript execution from temporary or unusual file locations, which may indicate malicious activity.

Analytic 1 - Script Execution from Temporary Locations 

``` (source=WinEventLog:"*Microsoft-Windows-PowerShell/Operational" EventID="4103") | WHERE CommandLine LIKE "*AppData*.vbs*" OR CommandLine LIKE "*AppData*.vbe*" OR CommandLine LIKE "*AppData*.vba*" ```


