# Input Capture (T1056)

## Description
Adversaries may use methods of capturing user input to obtain credentials or collect information. During normal system usage, users often provide credentials to various different locations, such as login pages/portals or system dialog boxes. Input capture mechanisms may be transparent to the user (e.g. Credential API Hooking (T1056.004)) or rely on deceiving the user into providing input into what they believe to be a genuine service (e.g. Web Portal Capture (T1056.003)).

## Sub-techniques
- Keylogging (T1056.001)
- Web Portal Capture (T1056.003)
- GUI Input Capture (T1056.002)
- Credential API Hooking (T1056.004)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- APT42 (G1044)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- APT39 (G0087)

## Detection
Detection may vary depending on how input is captured but may include monitoring for certain Windows API calls (e.g. `SetWindowsHook`, `GetKeyState`, and `GetAsyncKeyState`), monitoring for malicious instances of Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059), and ensuring no unauthorized drivers or kernel modules that could indicate keylogging or API hooking are present.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files for unexpected modifications to access permissions and attributes. Monitor for changes to files associated with loading shared libraries such as `LD_PRELOAD` on Linux (such as `/etc/ld.so.preload`) and `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` on macOS.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected file modifications.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 | where Object_Type="File" AND Access_Mask IN ("0x2", "0x4", "0x20", "0x80", "0x100") ```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes conducting malicious activity 

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor library metadata, such as a hash, and compare libraries that are loaded at process execution time against previous executions to detect differences that do not correlate with patching or updates. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that are added to absolute paths of shared libraries such as `LD_PRELOAD` on Linux (such as `/etc/ld.so.preload`) and `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` on macOS.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys or values for unexpected modifications

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Verify integrity of live processes by comparing code in memory to that of corresponding static binaries, specifically checking for jumps and other instructions that redirect code flow.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments associated with modifications to variables and files associated with loading shared libraries such as `LD_PRELOAD` on Linux and `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` on macOS.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls to `SetWindowsHook`, `GetKeyState`, and `GetAsyncKeyState`.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected kernel driver installations.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:System" EventCode=7045 | where match(Service_Name, "(?i)(keylogger|input|capture|sniff|monitor|keyboard|logger|driver)")```

