# Systemd Timers (T1053.006)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse systemd timers to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. Systemd timers are unit files with file extension ```.timer``` that control services. Timers can be set to run on a calendar event or after a time span relative to a starting point. They can be used as an alternative to Cron (T1053.003) in Linux environments. Systemd timers may be activated remotely via the ```systemctl``` command line utility, which operates over SSH (T1021.004).

Each ```.timer``` file must have a corresponding ```.service``` file with the same name, e.g., ```example.timer``` and ```example.service```. ```.service``` files are Systemd Service (T1543.002) unit files that are managed by the systemd system and service manager. Privileged timers are written to ```/etc/systemd/system/``` and ```/usr/lib/systemd/system``` while user level are written to ```~/.config/systemd/user/```.

An adversary may use systemd timers to execute malicious code at system startup or on a scheduled basis for persistence. Timers installed using privileged paths may be used to maintain root level persistence. Adversaries may also install user level timers to achieve user level persistence.

## Parent Technique
- Scheduled Task/Job (T1053)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Systemd timer unit files may be detected by auditing file creation and modification events within the ```/etc/systemd/system```, ```/usr/lib/systemd/system/```, and ```~/.config/systemd/user/``` directories, as well as associated symbolic links. Suspicious processes or scripts spawned in this manner will have a parent process of ‘systemd’, a parent process ID of 1, and will usually execute as the ‘root’ user.

Suspicious systemd timers can also be identified by comparing results against a trusted system baseline. Malicious systemd timers may be detected by using the systemctl utility to examine system wide timers: ```systemctl list-timers –all```. Analyze the contents of corresponding ```.service``` files present on the file system and ensure that they refer to legitimate, expected executables.

Audit the execution and command-line arguments of the 'systemd-run' utility as it may be used to create timers.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to systemd timer unit files for unexpected modification events within the /etc/systemd/system, /usr/lib/systemd/system/, and ~/.config/systemd/user/ directories, as well as associated symbolic links.

Analytic 1 - Look for systemd timer file modifications with unusual parameters.

```sourcetype=linux_file_audit (file_path="/etc/systemd/system/*.timer" OR file_path="/etc/systemd/system/*.service" OR file_path="~/.config/systemd/user/*.timer" OR file_path="/usr/lib/systemd/system/*.timer")
| stats count by user host file_path action
| where action="Create" OR action="Write" ```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that will have a parent process of ‘systemd’, a parent process ID of 1, and will usually execute as the ‘root’ user.

Note: This query looks for processes spawned by systemd (parent process systemd, with a PID of 1). These processes should be examined for anomalous behavior, particularly when running as the root user.

Analytic 1 - Look for processes with parent process systemdand unusual parameters.

```  sourcetype=linux_process_creation parent_process_name="systemd"```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments the 'systemd-run' utility as it may be used to create timers.

Analytic 1 - Look for systemd-run execution with arguments indicative of timer creation.

```sourcetype=linux_logs (command="systemctl*" OR command="systemd-run*") ```

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Creation (DS0003): 
Suspicious systemd timers can also be identified by comparing results against a trusted system baseline. Malicious systemd timers may be detected by using the systemctl utility to examine system wide timers: systemctl list-timers –all. Analyze the contents of corresponding .service files present on the file system and ensure that they refer to legitimate, expected executables.

Analytic 1 - Look for systemd timer creation events with unusual parameters.

``` sourcetype=linux_logs (command="systemctl start *.timer" OR command="systemctl enable *.timer" OR command="systemctl daemon-reload")```

