# AutoHotKey & AutoIT (T1059.010)

## Description
Adversaries may execute commands and perform malicious tasks using AutoIT and AutoHotKey automation scripts. AutoIT and AutoHotkey (AHK) are scripting languages that enable users to automate Windows tasks. These automation scripts can be used to perform a wide variety of actions, such as clicking on buttons, entering text, and opening and closing programs.

Adversaries may use AHK (`.ahk`) and AutoIT (`.au3`) scripts to execute malicious code on a victim's system. For example, adversaries have used for AHK to execute payloads and other modular malware such as keyloggers. Adversaries have also used custom AHK files containing embedded malware as Phishing (T1566) payloads.

These scripts may also be compiled into self-contained executable payloads (`.exe`).

## Parent Technique
- Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- APT39 (G0087)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor and analyze the execution and arguments of the `AutoIt3.exe` and `AutoHotkey.exe` interpreters. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior, such as if `AutoHotkey.exe` is the parent process for additional suspicious processes and activity.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for abnormal usage of utilities and command-line arguments that may be used in support of malicious execution. Compare recent invocations of  `AutoIt3.exe` and `AutoHotkey.exe` with prior history of known good arguments to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity (ex: obfuscated and/or malicious commands).

