# Cron (T1053.003)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse the ```cron``` utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of malicious code. The ```cron``` utility is a time-based job scheduler for Unix-like operating systems.  The ``` crontab``` file contains the schedule of cron entries to be run and the specified times for execution. Any ```crontab``` files are stored in operating system-specific file paths.

An adversary may use ```cron``` in Linux or Unix environments to execute programs at system startup or on a scheduled basis for Persistence (TA0003). In ESXi environments, cron jobs must be created directly via the crontab file (e.g., `/var/spool/cron/crontabs/root`).

## Parent Technique
- Scheduled Task/Job (T1053)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Rocke (G0106)
- APT5 (G1023)
- APT38 (G0082)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor scheduled task creation from common utilities using command-line invocation. Legitimate scheduled tasks may be created during installation of new software or through system administration functions. Look for changes to tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc.  

Suspicious program execution through scheduled tasks may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor modifications to crontab files or system-wide cron directories. Monitor for changes made to files for unexpected modifications to access permissions and attributes.

Analytic 1 -  Modified Files in Linux Cron Directories

``` index=linux sourcetype:cron_logs:scheduled_tasks" | search "modification" AND (file_path="/etc/crontab" OR file_path="/var/spool/cron/crontabs/*" OR file_path="/etc/cron.d/*")```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Create a baseline of cron jobs and the processes that they spawn in your environment. Monitor for newly spawned outlier processes that are executed through cron jobs that have not been seen before when compared against the baseline data.

Analytic 1 - Unusual Cron Job Creation

``` index=os_logs sourcetype=process_creation (process_name="*cron*" OR process_name="*/usr/sbin/cron*") ```

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Creation (DS0003): 
Monitor for newly constructed scheduled jobs. Legitimate scheduled tasks may be created during installation of new software or through system administration functions. Look for changes to tasks that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc.

Analytic 1 - Look for new cron job creation events with unusual parameters.

``` index=os_logs sourcetype=syslog (command="*crontab -e*" OR command="*crontab -l*")
| stats count by user host
| where user != "root" OR count > 1```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor execution of commands related to cron that are out of alignment with known software or administrative tasks. Monitor executed atq command and ensure IP addresses stored in the `SSH_CONNECTION` and `SSH_CLIENT` variables, machines that created the jobs, are trusted hosts. All at jobs are stored in `/var/spool/cron/atjobs/`.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Cron execution

``` index=linux_logs sourcetype=cron_logs | search "cron" AND (command="crontab -e" OR command="crontab -l" OR command="* * * * *" OR command="*/cron.d/*")```

