# Process Injection (T1055)

## Description
Adversaries may inject code into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Process injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via process injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 

There are many different ways to inject code into a process, many of which abuse legitimate functionalities. These implementations exist for every major OS but are typically platform specific. 

More sophisticated samples may perform multiple process injections to segment modules and further evade detection, utilizing named pipes or other inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms as a communication channel. 

## Sub-techniques
- Extra Window Memory Injection (T1055.011)
- Thread Execution Hijacking (T1055.003)
- Process Doppelgänging (T1055.013)
- Asynchronous Procedure Call (T1055.004)
- Portable Executable Injection (T1055.002)
- VDSO Hijacking (T1055.014)
- Process Hollowing (T1055.012)
- Proc Memory (T1055.009)
- Thread Local Storage (T1055.005)
- Ptrace System Calls (T1055.008)
- ListPlanting (T1055.015)
- Dynamic-link Library Injection (T1055.001)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)
- Silence (G0091)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- APT5 (G1023)
- PLATINUM (G0068)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Turla (G0010)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitoring Windows API calls indicative of the various types of code injection may generate a significant amount of data and may not be directly useful for defense unless collected under specific circumstances for known bad sequences of calls, since benign use of API functions may be common and difficult to distinguish from malicious behavior. Windows API calls such as ```CreateRemoteThread```, ```SuspendThread```/```SetThreadContext```/```ResumeThread```, ```QueueUserAPC```/```NtQueueApcThread```, and those that can be used to modify memory within another process, such as ```VirtualAllocEx```/```WriteProcessMemory```, may be used for this technique. 

Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process. 

Monitoring for Linux specific calls such as the ptrace system call should not generate large amounts of data due to their specialized nature, and can be a very effective method to detect some of the common process injection methods.       

Monitor for named pipe creation and connection events (Event IDs 17 and 18) for possible indicators of infected processes with external modules. 

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes being viewed that may inject code into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

#### Process: Process Modification (DS0009): 
Monitor for changes made to processes that may inject code into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may inject code into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor for process memory inconsistencies, such as checking memory ranges against a known copy of the legitimate module.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, etc.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitoring Windows API calls indicative of the various types of code injection may generate a significant amount of data and may not be directly useful for defense unless collected under specific circumstances for known bad sequences of calls, since benign use of API functions may be common and difficult to distinguish from malicious behavior. Windows API calls such as ```CreateRemoteThread```, ```SuspendThread```/```SetThreadContext```/```ResumeThread```, ```QueueUserAPC```/```NtQueueApcThread```, and those that can be used to modify memory within another process, such as ```VirtualAllocEx```/```WriteProcessMemory```, may be used for this technique. Monitoring for Linux specific calls such as the ptrace system call should not generate large amounts of data due to their specialized nature, and can be a very effective method to detect some of the common process injection methods.   

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process.

