# Domain Groups (T1069.002)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to find domain-level groups and permission settings. The knowledge of domain-level permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine which users have elevated permissions, such as domain administrators.

Commands such as ```net group /domain``` of the Net utility,  ```dscacheutil -q group``` on macOS, and ```ldapsearch``` on Linux can list domain-level groups.

## Parent Technique
- Permission Groups Discovery (T1069)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- OilRig (G0049)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Turla (G0010)
- Inception (G0100)
- Dragonfly (G0035)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Group: Group Enumeration (DS0036): 
Monitor for logging that may suggest a list of available groups and/or their associated settings has been extracted, ex. Windows EID 4798 and 4799.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for executed commands and arguments that may attempt to find domain-level groups and permission settings.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with finding domain-level groups and permission settings, such as ```NetGroupEnum```. Other API calls relevant to Domain Group discovery include ```NetQueryDisplayInformation``` and ```NetGetDisplayInformationIndex```.

Note: Most EDR tools do not support direct monitoring of API calls due to the sheer volume of calls produced by an endpoint but may have alerts or events that are based on abstractions of OS API calls. Dynamic malware analysis tools (i.e., sandboxes) can be used to trace the execution, including OS API calls, for a single PE binary. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to find domain-level groups and permission settings.

For Linux, auditing frameworks that support alerting on process creation, including the audit daemon (auditd), can be used to alert on invocations of commands such as ```ldapsearch```.

For MacOS, utilities that work in concert with Apple’s Endpoint Security Framework such as Process Monitor can be used to track usage of commands such as ```dscacheutil -q group```.

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 10 - process access) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). 

Analytic 1 - Local Permission Group Discovery - Net

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") (Image= "net.exe" OR Image= "net1.exe") AND CommandLine="*group*/domain*")```

