# Cloud Groups (T1069.003)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to find cloud groups and permission settings. The knowledge of cloud permission groups can help adversaries determine the particular roles of users and groups within an environment, as well as which users are associated with a particular group.

With authenticated access there are several tools that can be used to find permissions groups. The ```Get-MsolRole``` PowerShell cmdlet can be used to obtain roles and permissions groups for Exchange and Office 365 accounts .

Azure CLI (AZ CLI) and the Google Cloud Identity Provider API also provide interfaces to obtain permissions groups. The command ```az ad user get-member-groups``` will list groups associated to a user account for Azure while the API endpoint ```GET https://cloudidentity.googleapis.com/v1/groups``` lists group resources available to a user for Google. In AWS, the commands `ListRolePolicies` and `ListAttachedRolePolicies` allow users to enumerate the policies attached to a role.

Adversaries may attempt to list ACLs for objects to determine the owner and other accounts with access to the object, for example, via the AWS ```GetBucketAcl``` API . Using this information an adversary can target accounts with permissions to a given object or leverage accounts they have already compromised to access the object.

## Parent Technique
- Permission Groups Discovery (T1069)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Activity and account logs for the cloud services can also be monitored for suspicious commands that are anomalous compared to a baseline of normal activity.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for executed commands and arguments that may attempt to find cloud groups and permission settings. 

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for events collected that may attempt to find cloud groups and permission settings. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to find cloud groups and permission settings.

#### Group: Group Metadata (DS0036): 
Contextual data about a group which describes group and activity around it that may attempt to find cloud groups and permission settings. 

#### Group: Group Enumeration (DS0036): 
Monitor for an extracted list of available groups and/or their associated setting 

