# Permission Groups Discovery (T1069)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to discover group and permission settings. This information can help adversaries determine which user accounts and groups are available, the membership of users in particular groups, and which users and groups have elevated permissions.

Adversaries may attempt to discover group permission settings in many different ways. This data may provide the adversary with information about the compromised environment that can be used in follow-on activity and targeting.

## Sub-techniques
- Cloud Groups (T1069.003)
- Domain Groups (T1069.002)
- Local Groups (T1069.001)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- APT41 (G0096)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT3 (G0022)
- FIN13 (G1016)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001). Monitor container logs for commands and/or API calls related to listing permissions for pods and nodes, such as ```kubectl auth can-i```.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

#### Group: Group Metadata (DS0036): 
Monitor for contextual data about a group which describes group and activity around it.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for logging, messaging, and other artifacts provided by cloud services.

#### Group: Group Enumeration (DS0036): 
Monitor for an extracted list of ACLs of available groups and/or their associated settings.

