# Exploitation for Privilege Escalation (T1068)

## Description
Adversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in an attempt to elevate privileges. Exploitation of a software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute adversary-controlled code. Security constructs such as permission levels will often hinder access to information and use of certain techniques, so adversaries will likely need to perform privilege escalation to include use of software exploitation to circumvent those restrictions.

When initially gaining access to a system, an adversary may be operating within a lower privileged process which will prevent them from accessing certain resources on the system. Vulnerabilities may exist, usually in operating system components and software commonly running at higher permissions, that can be exploited to gain higher levels of access on the system. This could enable someone to move from unprivileged or user level permissions to SYSTEM or root permissions depending on the component that is vulnerable. This could also enable an adversary to move from a virtualized environment, such as within a virtual machine or container, onto the underlying host. This may be a necessary step for an adversary compromising an endpoint system that has been properly configured and limits other privilege escalation methods.

Adversaries may bring a signed vulnerable driver onto a compromised machine so that they can exploit the vulnerability to execute code in kernel mode. This process is sometimes referred to as Bring Your Own Vulnerable Driver (BYOVD). Adversaries may include the vulnerable driver with files delivered during Initial Access or download it to a compromised system via Ingress Tool Transfer (T1105) or Lateral Tool Transfer (T1570).

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Turla (G0010)
- PLATINUM (G0068)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- MoustachedBouncer (G1019)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Whitefly (G0107)
- BITTER (G1002)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- APT28 (G0007)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Tonto Team (G0131)
- APT32 (G0050)
- APT33 (G0064)
- OilRig (G0049)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- Exploit Protection (M1050)
- Application Isolation and Sandboxing (M1048)
- Threat Intelligence Program (M1019)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Detecting software exploitation may be difficult depending on the tools available. Software exploits may not always succeed or may cause the exploited process to become unstable or crash. Also look for behavior on the endpoint system that might indicate successful compromise, such as abnormal behavior of the processes. This could include suspicious files written to disk, evidence of Process Injection (T1055) for attempts to hide execution or evidence of Discovery. Consider monitoring for the presence or loading (ex: Sysmon Event ID 6) of known vulnerable drivers that adversaries may drop and exploit to execute code in kernel mode.

Higher privileges are often necessary to perform additional actions such as some methods of OS Credential Dumping (T1003). Look for additional activity that may indicate an adversary has gained higher privileges.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Detecting software exploitation may be difficult depending on the tools available. Software exploits may not always succeed or may cause the exploited process to become unstable or crash. Also look for behavior on the endpoint system that might indicate successful compromise, such as abnormal behavior of the processes. This could include suspicious files written to disk, evidence of Process Injection (T1055) for attempts to hide execution or evidence of Discovery. Consider monitoring for the presence or loading (ex: Sysmon Event ID 6) of known vulnerable drivers that adversaries may drop and exploit to execute code in kernel mode. Higher privileges are often necessary to perform additional actions such as some methods of OS Credential Dumping (T1003). Look for additional activity that may indicate an adversary has gained higher privileges.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may exploit software vulnerabilities in an attempt to elevate privileges. After gaining initial access to a system, threat actors attempt to escalate privileges as they may be operating within a lower privileged process which does not allow them to access protected information or carry out tasks which require higher permissions. A common way of escalating privileges in a system is by externally invoking and exploiting spoolsv or connhost executables, both of which are legitimate Windows applications. This query searches for an invocation of either of these executables by a user, thus alerting us of any potentially malicious activity.

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The Analytic is oriented around looking for an invocation of either spoolsv.exe or conhost.exe by a user, thus alerting us of any potentially malicious activity. A common way of escalating privileges in a system is by externally invoking and exploiting these executables, both of which are legitimate Windows applications. 

Analytic 1 - Unusual Child Process for spoolsv.exe or connhost.exe

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") (Image="C:\Windows\System32\spoolsv.exe" OR Image="C:\Windows\System32\conhost.exe") AND ParentImage= "C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe")```

