# Cloud Accounts (T1078.004)

## Description
Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to perform actions to achieve Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created and configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. Cloud Accounts can exist solely in the cloud; alternatively, they may be hybrid-joined between on-premises systems and the cloud through syncing or federation with other identity sources such as Windows Active Directory.

Service or user accounts may be targeted by adversaries through Brute Force (T1110), Phishing (T1566), or various other means to gain access to the environment. Federated or synced accounts may be a pathway for the adversary to affect both on-premises systems and cloud environments - for example, by leveraging shared credentials to log onto Remote Services (T1021). High privileged cloud accounts, whether federated, synced, or cloud-only, may also allow pivoting to on-premises environments by leveraging SaaS-based Software Deployment Tools (T1072) to run commands on hybrid-joined devices.

An adversary may create long lasting Additional Cloud Credentials (T1098.001) on a compromised cloud account to maintain persistence in the environment. Such credentials may also be used to bypass security controls such as multi-factor authentication. 

Cloud accounts may also be able to assume Temporary Elevated Cloud Access (T1548.005) or other privileges through various means within the environment. Misconfigurations in role assignments or role assumption policies may allow an adversary to use these mechanisms to leverage permissions outside the intended scope of the account. Such over privileged accounts may be used to harvest sensitive data from online storage accounts and databases through Cloud API (T1059.009) or other methods. For example, in Azure environments, adversaries may target Azure Managed Identities, which allow associated Azure resources to request access tokens. By compromising a resource with an attached Managed Identity, such as an Azure VM, adversaries may be able to Steal Application Access Token (T1528)s to move laterally across the cloud environment.

## Parent Technique
- Valid Accounts (T1078)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Initial Access (TA0001)

## Related Groups
- APT29 (G0016)
- APT5 (G1023)
- APT28 (G0007)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- APT33 (G0064)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Ke3chang (G0004)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Account Use Policies (M1036)
- User Training (M1017)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor the activity of cloud accounts to detect abnormal or malicious behavior, such as accessing information outside of the normal function of the account or account usage at atypical hours.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitor the activity of cloud accounts to detect abnormal or malicious behavior, such as accessing information outside of the normal function of the account, account usage at atypical hours, or account authentication from unexpected locations or IP addresses. Service accounts should only be accessible from IP addresses from within the cloud environment. For example, in Azure AD environments, consider using Identity Protection to flag risky sign-ins based on location, device compliance, and other factors. In Okta environments, configure Suspicious Activity Reporting to allow users to report suspicious logins and other behavior they do not recognize.

Analytic 1 - Anomalous IP addresses, unmanaged devices, unusual User Agents indicating automation tools or scripts

Note: To detect suspicious logins to cloud accounts using valid credentials from unusual sources.

``` "`index=""m365_audit_logs"" Operation=""UserLoggedIn"" ResultStatus=""Success""
| stats count by ClientIP, UserId, DeviceProperties
| where ClientIP!=""expected_ip"" OR DeviceProperties!=""expected_properties"""```

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Metadata (DS0028): 
Correlate other security systems with login information (e.g., a user has an active login session but has not entered the building or does not have VPN access).

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for suspicious account behavior across cloud services that share account. 

