# Clear Command History (T1070.003)

## Description
In addition to clearing system logs, an adversary may clear the command history of a compromised account to conceal the actions undertaken during an intrusion. Various command interpreters keep track of the commands users type in their terminal so that users can retrace what they've done.

On Linux and macOS, these command histories can be accessed in a few different ways. While logged in, this command history is tracked in a file pointed to by the environment variable ```HISTFILE```. When a user logs off a system, this information is flushed to a file in the user's home directory called ```~/.bash_history```. The benefit of this is that it allows users to go back to commands they've used before in different sessions. Adversaries may delete their commands from these logs by manually clearing the history (```history -c```) or deleting the bash history file ```rm ~/.bash_history```.  

Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI (T1059.008) on network devices to clear command history data (```clear logging``` and/or ```clear history```). On ESXi servers, command history may be manually removed from the `/var/log/shell.log` file.

On Windows hosts, PowerShell has two different command history providers: the built-in history and the command history managed by the ```PSReadLine``` module. The built-in history only tracks the commands used in the current session. This command history is not available to other sessions and is deleted when the session ends.

The ```PSReadLine``` command history tracks the commands used in all PowerShell sessions and writes them to a file (```$env:APPDATA\Microsoft\Windows\PowerShell\PSReadLine\ConsoleHost_history.txt``` by default). This history file is available to all sessions and contains all past history since the file is not deleted when the session ends.

Adversaries may run the PowerShell command ```Clear-History``` to flush the entire command history from a current PowerShell session. This, however, will not delete/flush the ```ConsoleHost_history.txt``` file. Adversaries may also delete the ```ConsoleHost_history.txt``` file or edit its contents to hide PowerShell commands they have run.

## Parent Technique
- Indicator Removal (T1070)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT5 (G1023)
- APT41 (G0096)

## Mitigations
- Remote Data Storage (M1029)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Environment Variable Permissions (M1039)

## Detection
User authentication, especially via remote terminal services like SSH, without new entries in that user's ```~/.bash_history``` is suspicious. Additionally, the removal/clearing of the ```~/.bash_history``` file can be an indicator of suspicious activity.

Monitor for suspicious modifications or deletion of ```ConsoleHost_history.txt``` and use of the ```Clear-History``` command.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for the suspicious execution of processes that may clear the command history of a compromised account to conceal the actions undertaken during an intrusion.

Analytic 1 - Clear Powershell Console Command History 

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND
  (CommandLine="*rm (Get-PSReadlineOption).HistorySavePath*" OR
   CommandLine="*del (Get-PSReadlineOption).HistorySavePath*" OR 
   CommandLine="*Set-PSReadlineOption –HistorySaveStyle SaveNothing*" OR
   CommandLine="*Remove-Item (Get-PSReadlineOption).HistorySavePath*" OR
   (CommandLine="*del*" AND CommandLine="*Microsoft\Windows\Powershell\PSReadline\ConsoleHost_history.txt*"))```

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a command history file, such as `ConsoleHost_history.txt`, `~/.zsh_history`, `~/.bash_history`, or `/var/log/shell.log`.

Analytic 1 - Deletion of command history files

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="23") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4663") FilePath LIKE '%ConsoleHost_history.txt%' AND
   ObjectType == "File" AND
   (UserAccessList LIKE '%1537%' OR 
    UserAccessList LIKE '%DELETE%'))```

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to command history files, such as `ConsoleHost_history.txt`, `~/.zsh_history`, `~/.bash_history`, or `/var/log/shell.log`, for unexpected modifications to contents, access permissions, and attributes.

Analytic 1 : Modification of access rights to command history files

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4663, 4670) AND Path="*ConsoleHost_history.txt*" AND ObjectType="File")
	 AND (UserAccessList="*1539*" OR UserAccessList="*WRITE_DAC*") OR (ObjectNewSd="*;FA*" OR ObjectNewSd="*;FW*" OR ObjectNewSd="*;BU*")```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to clear command history, such as ```Clear-History``` on Windows or `clear logging` / `clear history` via a Network Device CLI in AAA logs, or to disable writing command history, such as ```history -c``` in bash/zsh .

Analytic 1 - Powershell Commands 

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational" EventCode="4103") (CommandLine="*Clear-History*" OR
   (CommandLine="*Remove-Item*" AND CommandLine="*ConsoleHost_history.text*")) ```


#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitor for an attempts by a user to gain access to a network or computing resource, often by providing credentials via remote terminal services, that do not have a corresponding entry in a command history file.

