# Domain Accounts (T1078.002)

## Description
Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a domain account as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Domain accounts are those managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are configured across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can cover users, administrators, and services.

Adversaries may compromise domain accounts, some with a high level of privileges, through various means such as OS Credential Dumping (T1003) or password reuse, allowing access to privileged resources of the domain.

## Parent Technique
- Valid Accounts (T1078)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Initial Access (TA0001)

## Related Groups
- Naikon (G0019)
- Agrius (G1030)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Play (G1040)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Threat Group-1314 (G0028)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Training (M1017)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Configure robust, consistent account activity audit policies across the enterprise and with externally accessible services. Look for suspicious account behavior across systems that share accounts, either user, admin, or service accounts. Examples: one account logged into multiple systems simultaneously; multiple accounts logged into the same machine simultaneously; accounts logged in at odd times or outside of business hours. Activity may be from interactive login sessions or process ownership from accounts being used to execute binaries on a remote system as a particular account. Correlate other security systems with login information (e.g., a user has an active login session but has not entered the building or does not have VPN access).

On Linux, check logs and other artifacts created by use of domain authentication services, such as the System Security Services Daemon (sssd). 

Perform regular audits of domain accounts to detect accounts that may have been created by an adversary for persistence.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitor for an attempt by a user to gain access to a network or computing resource, often by the use of domain authentication services, such as the System Security Services Daemon (sssd) on Linux

Note:

- For Windows, Security Logs events, including Event ID 4624, can be monitored to track user login behavior.
- For Linux, auditing frameworks that support File Integrity Monitoring (FIM), including the audit daemon (auditd), can be used to alert on changes to files that store login information. These files include: ```/etc/login.defs```,``` /etc/securetty```,``` /var/log/faillog```,``` /var/log/lastlog```,``` /var/log/tallylog```.
- For MacOS, auditing frameworks that support capturing information on user logins, such as OSQuery, can be used to audit user account logins and authentications. 

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for suspicious account behavior across systems that share accounts, either user, admin, or service accounts. Examples: one account logged into multiple systems simultaneously; multiple accounts logged into the same machine simultaneously; accounts logged in at odd times or outside of business hours. Activity may be from interactive login sessions or process ownership from accounts being used to execute binaries on a remote system as a particular account. 

A remote desktop logon, through Remote Desktop Protocol (T1021.001), may be typical of a system administrator or IT support, but only from select workstations. Monitoring remote desktop logons and comparing to known/approved originating systems can detect lateral movement of an adversary.

Multiple users logged into a single machine at the same time, or even within the same hour, do not typically occur in networks we have observed.
Logon events are Windows Event Code 4624 for Windows Vista and above, 518 for pre-Vista. Logoff events are 4634 for Windows Vista and above, 538 for pre-Vista. Logon types 2, 3, 9 and 10 are of interest. For more details see the Logon Types table on Microsoft’s Audit Logon Events page.

Analytic 1 - Remote Desktop Logon

```(source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4624") AuthenticationPackageName= "Negotiate" AND Severity= "Information" AND logon_type= "10"```


#### Logon Session: Logon Session Metadata (DS0028): 
Correlate other security systems with login information (e.g., a user has an active login session but has not entered the building or does not have VPN access).

