# Default Accounts (T1078.001)

## Description
Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a default account as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Default accounts are those that are built-into an OS, such as the Guest or Administrator accounts on Windows systems. Default accounts also include default factory/provider set accounts on other types of systems, software, or devices, including the root user account in AWS, the root user account in ESXi, and the default service account in Kubernetes.

Default accounts are not limited to client machines; rather, they also include accounts that are preset for equipment such as network devices and computer applications, whether they are internal, open source, or commercial. Appliances that come preset with a username and password combination pose a serious threat to organizations that do not change it post installation, as they are easy targets for an adversary. Similarly, adversaries may also utilize publicly disclosed or stolen Private Keys (T1552.004) or credential materials to legitimately connect to remote environments via Remote Services (T1021).

Default accounts may be created on a system after initial setup by connecting or integrating it with another application. For example, when an ESXi server is connected to a vCenter server, a default privileged account called `vpxuser` is created on the ESXi server. If a threat actor is able to compromise this account’s credentials (for example, via Exploitation for Credential Access (T1212) on the vCenter host), they will then have access to the ESXi server.

## Parent Technique
- Valid Accounts (T1078)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Initial Access (TA0001)

## Related Groups
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Ember Bear (G1003)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Monitor whether default accounts have been activated or logged into. These audits should also include checks on any appliances and applications for default credentials or SSH keys, and if any are discovered, they should be updated immediately.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for newly constructed logon behavior across default accounts that have been activated or logged into. These audits should also include checks on any appliances and applications for default credentials or SSH keys, and if any are discovered, they should be updated immediately.

#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitor for logins to default accounts outside of expected contexts. For example, in ESXi environments, monitor the `/var/log/hostd.log` file for logins to the `vpxuser` default user account that do not come from the vCenter server IP or use the `VMWare-Client/X.X.X` user-agent.

