# Indicator Removal (T1070)

## Description
Adversaries may delete or modify artifacts generated within systems to remove evidence of their presence or hinder defenses. Various artifacts may be created by an adversary or something that can be attributed to an adversary’s actions. Typically these artifacts are used as defensive indicators related to monitored events, such as strings from downloaded files, logs that are generated from user actions, and other data analyzed by defenders. Location, format, and type of artifact (such as command or login history) are often specific to each platform.

Removal of these indicators may interfere with event collection, reporting, or other processes used to detect intrusion activity. This may compromise the integrity of security solutions by causing notable events to go unreported. This activity may also impede forensic analysis and incident response, due to lack of sufficient data to determine what occurred.

## Sub-techniques
- Clear Linux or Mac System Logs (T1070.002)
- Clear Network Connection History and Configurations (T1070.007)
- Clear Command History (T1070.003)
- Clear Mailbox Data (T1070.008)
- Timestomp (T1070.006)
- Clear Windows Event Logs (T1070.001)
- Network Share Connection Removal (T1070.005)
- Relocate Malware (T1070.010)
- Clear Persistence (T1070.009)
- File Deletion (T1070.004)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT42 (G1044)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)

## Mitigations
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Remote Data Storage (M1029)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
File system monitoring may be used to detect improper deletion or modification of indicator files.  Events not stored on the file system may require different detection mechanisms.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Modification (DS0003): 
Monitor for changes made to scheduled jobs that may attempt to remove artifacts on a host system.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to a file may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### Firewall: Firewall Rule Modification (DS0018): 
Monitor for changes made to firewall rules, especially unexpected modifications that may potentially be related to allowing and/or cleaning up previous tampering that enabled malicious network traffic.

#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitor for an attempt by a user to gain access to a network or computing resource, often by providing credentials that may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual file data that may show signs of deletion or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### User Account: User Account Deletion (DS0002): 
Monitor for unexpected deletions of user accounts. Windows event logs may highlight activity associated with an adversary's attempt to remove an account (e.g., `Event ID 4726 - A user account was deleted`).

Alerting on these Event IDs may generate a high degree of false positives, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate account modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor logs for abnormal modifications to application settings, such as the creation of malicious Exchange transport rules.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for a file that may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys or values that may delete or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Deletion (DS0024): 
Monitor windows registry keys that may be deleted or alter generated artifacts on a host system, including logs or captured files such as quarantined malware.

