# Software Deployment Tools (T1072)

## Description
Adversaries may gain access to and use centralized software suites installed within an enterprise to execute commands and move laterally through the network. Configuration management and software deployment applications may be used in an enterprise network or cloud environment for routine administration purposes. These systems may also be integrated into CI/CD pipelines. Examples of such solutions include: SCCM, HBSS, Altiris, AWS Systems Manager, Microsoft Intune, Azure Arc, and GCP Deployment Manager.  

Access to network-wide or enterprise-wide endpoint management software may enable an adversary to achieve remote code execution on all connected systems. The access may be used to laterally move to other systems, gather information, or cause a specific effect, such as wiping the hard drives on all endpoints.

SaaS-based configuration management services may allow for broad Cloud Administration Command (T1651) on cloud-hosted instances, as well as the execution of arbitrary commands on on-premises endpoints. For example, Microsoft Configuration Manager allows Global or Intune Administrators to run scripts as SYSTEM on on-premises devices joined to Entra ID. Such services may also utilize Web Protocols (T1071.001) to communicate back to adversary owned infrastructure.

Network infrastructure devices may also have configuration management tools that can be similarly abused by adversaries.

The permissions required for this action vary by system configuration; local credentials may be sufficient with direct access to the third-party system, or specific domain credentials may be required. However, the system may require an administrative account to log in or to access specific functionality.

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- APT32 (G0050)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Silence (G0091)
- Threat Group-1314 (G0028)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- User Training (M1017)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Remote Data Storage (M1029)

## Detection
Detection methods will vary depending on the type of third-party software or system and how it is typically used. 

The same investigation process can be applied here as with other potentially malicious activities where the distribution vector is initially unknown but the resulting activity follows a discernible pattern. Analyze the process execution trees, historical activities from the third-party application (such as what types of files are usually pushed), and the resulting activities or events from the file/binary/script pushed to systems. 

Often these third-party applications will have logs of their own that can be collected and correlated with other data from the environment. Ensure that third-party application logs are on-boarded to the enterprise logging system and the logs are regularly reviewed. Audit software deployment logs and look for suspicious or unauthorized activity. A system not typically used to push software to clients that suddenly is used for such a task outside of a known admin function may be suspicious. Monitor account login activity on these applications to detect suspicious/abnormal usage.

Perform application deployment at regular times so that irregular deployment activity stands out. Monitor process activity that does not correlate to known good software. Monitor account login activity on the deployment system.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that does not correlate to known good software. Analyze the process execution trees, historical activities from the third-party application (such as what types of files are usually pushed), and the resulting activities or events from the file/binary/script pushed to systems. 

Note: This query detects the creation of suspicious processes initiated by system or administrative accounts (such as SYSTEM, Admin, or SCCM) that are not typical for those users, and filters the process creation based on unusual patterns. Processes like cmd.exe, powershell.exe, or python executed in this context without an expected parent process or correlation to authorized events should be flagged for investigation.

Analytic 1 - Look for unusual software deployment processes, unexpected binaries or scripts, non-standard execution trees

```sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=linux_audit | search (process_name IN ("cmd.exe", "powershell.exe", "sh", "bash", "python", "wscript", "msiexec.exe", "installer") AND user IN ("SYSTEM", "Admin", "SCCM")) ```

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Often these third-party applications will have logs of their own that can be collected and correlated with other data from the environment. Ensure that third-party application logs are on-boarded to the enterprise logging system and the logs are regularly reviewed. Audit software deployment logs and look for suspicious or unauthorized activity. A system not typically used to push software to clients that suddenly is used for such a task outside of a known admin function may be suspicious. Monitor account login activity on these applications to detect suspicious/abnormal usage.
Perform application deployment at regular times so that irregular deployment activity stands out.

Analytic 1 - Look for irregular deployment activity, systems not typically used for deployment suddenly pushing software, abnormal account login activity

```sourcetype= aws_system_manager OR sourcetype=azure_arc | search (event_description="*deployment*" OR action="*push*" OR result="success" OR result="failure" OR command="run script") ```

Analytic 2 - Look for signs of malicious payloads or configurations being pushed using legitimate software deployment tools 

``` sourcetype="aws:cloudtrail" OR sourcetype="windows:eventlog" OR sourcetype="sccm:execmgr"
| search EventName="SendCommand" OR EventName="StartSession" OR "SoftwareDeploymentEvent"
| stats count by UserIdentity.Arn, SourceIPAddress, EventTime, EventName, Command
| eval suspicious=if(count > threshold_limit OR match(UserIdentity.Arn, "unexpected_user_pattern"), "suspicious", "normal")
| where suspicious="suspicious"
| table EventTime, UserIdentity.Arn, SourceIPAddress, EventName, Command, suspicious``` 

