# Network Share Connection Removal (T1070.005)

## Description
Adversaries may remove share connections that are no longer useful in order to clean up traces of their operation. Windows shared drive and SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002) connections can be removed when no longer needed. Net is an example utility that can be used to remove network share connections with the ```net use \\system\share /delete``` command. 

## Parent Technique
- Indicator Removal (T1070)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)

## Detection
Network share connections may be common depending on how an network environment is used. Monitor command-line invocation of ```net use``` commands associated with establishing and removing remote shares over SMB, including following best practices for detection of Windows Admin Shares (T1077). SMB traffic between systems may also be captured and decoded to look for related network share session and file transfer activity. Windows authentication logs are also useful in determining when authenticated network shares are established and by which account, and can be used to correlate network share activity to other events to investigate potentially malicious activity.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitoring for SMB traffic between systems may also be captured and decoded to look for related network share session and file transfer activity.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments of net use commands associated with establishing and removing remote shares over SMB, including following best practices for detection of Windows Admin Shares.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command line execution that can be used to remove network share connections via the net.exe process. 

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The Analytic is oriented around looking for various methods of removing network shares via the command line, which is otherwise a rare event. 

Analytic 1- Network Share Connection Removal

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") (Image= "C:\Windows\System32\net.exe" AND CommandLine= "*delete*") OR CommandLine="*Remove-SmbShare*" OR CommandLine="*Remove-FileShare*" )```

#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitoring for Windows authentication logs are also useful in determining when authenticated network shares are established and by which account, and can be used to correlate network share activity to other events to investigate potentially malicious activity.

