# Clear Persistence (T1070.009)

## Description
Adversaries may clear artifacts associated with previously established persistence on a host system to remove evidence of their activity. This may involve various actions, such as removing services, deleting executables, Modify Registry (T1112), Plist File Modification (T1647), or other methods of cleanup to prevent defenders from collecting evidence of their persistent presence. Adversaries may also delete accounts previously created to maintain persistence (i.e. Create Account (T1136)).

In some instances, artifacts of persistence may also be removed once an adversary’s persistence is executed in order to prevent errors with the new instance of the malware.

## Parent Technique
- Indicator Removal (T1070)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Remote Data Storage (M1029)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for a file that may delete or alter generated artifacts associated with persistence on a host system.

#### User Account: User Account Deletion (DS0002): 
Monitor for unexpected deletions of user accounts. Windows event logs may highlight activity associated with an adversary's attempt to remove an account (e.g., `Event ID 4726 - A user account was deleted`).

Alerting on these Event IDs may generate a high degree of false positives, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate account modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to a file may delete or alter generated artifacts associated with persistence on a host system.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys or values that may delete or alter generated artifacts associated with persistence on a host system.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may delete or alter generated artifacts associated with persistence on a host system. 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Deletion (DS0024): 
Monitor windows registry keys that may be deleted or alter generated artifacts associated with persistence on a host system. 

#### Scheduled Job: Scheduled Job Modification (DS0003): 
Monitor for changes made to scheduled jobs that may attempt to remove artifacts on a host system.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may delete or alter generated artifacts associated with persistence on a host system.

