# Web Protocols (T1071.001)

## Description
Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with web traffic to avoid detection/network filtering by blending in with existing traffic. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traffic between the client and server. 

Protocols such as HTTP/S and WebSocket that carry web traffic may be very common in environments. HTTP/S packets have many fields and headers in which data can be concealed. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal, expected traffic. 

## Parent Technique
- Application Layer Protocol (T1071)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- Rancor (G0075)
- Metador (G1013)
- RedEcho (G1042)
- BITTER (G1002)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Orangeworm (G0071)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Chimera (G0114)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- APT19 (G0073)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- APT38 (G0082)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Inception (G0100)
- WIRTE (G0090)
- Turla (G0010)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- SilverTerrier (G0083)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Confucius (G0142)
- Windshift (G0112)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- APT33 (G0064)
- TA551 (G0127)
- APT42 (G1044)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- FIN4 (G0085)
- APT18 (G0026)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Sea Turtle (G1041)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- TA505 (G0092)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)

## Detection
Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect application layer protocols that do not follow the expected protocol standards regarding syntax, structure, or any other variable adversaries could leverage to conceal data.

Monitor for web traffic to/from known-bad or suspicious domains. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s), leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traffic, that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor for web traffic to/from known-bad or suspicious domains and analyze traffic flows that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, or gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

