# Domain Account (T1087.002)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of domain accounts. This information can help adversaries determine which domain accounts exist to aid in follow-on behavior such as targeting specific accounts which possess particular privileges.

Commands such as ```net user /domain``` and ```net group /domain``` of the Net utility, ```dscacheutil -q group``` on macOS, and ```ldapsearch``` on Linux can list domain users and groups. PowerShell (T1059.001) cmdlets including ```Get-ADUser``` and ```Get-ADGroupMember``` may enumerate members of Active Directory groups.  

## Parent Technique
- Account Discovery (T1087)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- FIN13 (G1016)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Chimera (G0114)
- menuPass (G0045)
- OilRig (G0049)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Turla (G0010)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Poseidon Group (G0033)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Dragonfly (G0035)

## Mitigations
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).


### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes that can be used to enumerate domain accounts and groups, such as ```net.exe``` and ```net1.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.
 
Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for execution of commands and arguments associated with enumeration or information gathering of domain accounts and groups, such as ```net user /domain``` and ```net group /domain```, ```dscacheutil -q group```on macOS, and ```ldapsearch``` on Linux.

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment, and also to an extent in normal network operations. Therefore discovery data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to gather information about domain accounts such as type of user, privileges and groups.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to LDAP and MSRPC that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure).

#### Group: Group Enumeration (DS0036): 
Monitor for logging that may suggest a list of available groups and/or their associated settings has been extracted, ex. Windows EID 4798 and 4799.

