# File and Directory Discovery (T1083)

## Description
Adversaries may enumerate files and directories or may search in specific locations of a host or network share for certain information within a file system. Adversaries may use the information from File and Directory Discovery (T1083) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Many command shell utilities can be used to obtain this information. Examples include ```dir```, ```tree```, ```ls```, ```find```, and ```locate```. Custom tools may also be used to gather file and directory information and interact with the Native API (T1106). Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI (T1059.008) on network devices to gather file and directory information (e.g. ```dir```, ```show flash```, and/or ```nvram```).

Some files and directories may require elevated or specific user permissions to access.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Sowbug (G0054)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- APT38 (G0082)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Inception (G0100)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Chimera (G0114)
- admin@338 (G0018)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Aoqin Dragon (G1007)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- APT3 (G0022)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- APT39 (G0087)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Play (G1040)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Confucius (G0142)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Winnti Group (G0044)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Windigo (G0124)
- APT18 (G0026)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Turla (G0010)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001). Further, Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands may also be used to gather file and directory information with built-in features native to the network device platform.  Monitor CLI activity for unexpected or unauthorized use of commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations.  

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may enumerate files and directories or may search in specific locations of a host or network share for certain information within a file system. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users. On ESXi servers, monitor for commands that leverage tools like `grep` and `find` to search for files with VM extensions such as `vmdk`, or in VM-related paths such as `/vmfs/*`.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may enumerate files and directories or may search in specific locations of a host or network share for certain information within a file system.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may enumerate files and directories or may search in specific locations of a host or network share for certain information within a file system.

