# Email Account (T1087.003)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of email addresses and accounts. Adversaries may try to dump Exchange address lists such as global address lists (GALs).

In on-premises Exchange and Exchange Online, the ```Get-GlobalAddressList``` PowerShell cmdlet can be used to obtain email addresses and accounts from a domain using an authenticated session.

In Google Workspace, the GAL is shared with Microsoft Outlook users through the Google Workspace Sync for Microsoft Outlook (GWSMO) service. Additionally, the Google Workspace Directory allows for users to get a listing of other users within the organization.

## Parent Technique
- Account Discovery (T1087)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- TA505 (G0092)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes, such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001) , with arguments that can be used to enumerate email addresses and accounts.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for execution of commands and arguments associated with enumeration or information gathering of email addresses and accounts such as ```Get-AddressList```, ```Get-GlobalAddressList```, and ```Get-OfflineAddressBook```.

