# System Information Discovery (T1082)

## Description
An adversary may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotfixes, service packs, and architecture. Adversaries may use the information from System Information Discovery (T1082) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Tools such as Systeminfo can be used to gather detailed system information. If running with privileged access, a breakdown of system data can be gathered through the ```systemsetup``` configuration tool on macOS. As an example, adversaries with user-level access can execute the ```df -aH``` command to obtain currently mounted disks and associated freely available space. Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI (T1059.008) on network devices to gather detailed system information (e.g. ```show version```). On ESXi servers, threat actors may gather system information from various esxcli utilities, such as `system hostname get`, `system version get`, and `storage filesystem list` (to list storage volumes).

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers such as AWS, GCP, and Azure allow access to instance and virtual machine information via APIs. Successful authenticated API calls can return data such as the operating system platform and status of a particular instance or the model view of a virtual machine.

System Information Discovery (T1082) combined with information gathered from other forms of discovery and reconnaissance can drive payload development and concealment. 

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Windigo (G0124)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- OilRig (G0049)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- APT37 (G0067)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Inception (G0100)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Moses Staff (G1009)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- CURIUM (G1012)
- Malteiro (G1026)
- Confucius (G0142)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- Play (G1040)
- APT42 (G1044)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Chimera (G0114)
- APT19 (G0073)
- APT18 (G0026)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Mustard Tempest (G1020)
- Sowbug (G0054)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Turla (G0010)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Windshift (G0112)
- admin@338 (G0018)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Ke3chang (G0004)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Further, Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands may also be used to gather  detailed system information with built-in features native to the network device platform.  Monitor CLI activity for unexpected or unauthorized use  commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

In cloud-based systems, native logging can be used to identify access to certain APIs and dashboards that may contain system information. Depending on how the environment is used, that data alone may not be useful due to benign use during normal operations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotfixes, service packs, and architecture. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001). In cloud-based systems, native logging can be used to identify access to certain APIs and dashboards that may contain system information. Depending on how the environment is used, that data alone may not be useful due to benign use during normal operations.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotfixes, service packs, and architecture.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotfixes, service packs, and architecture. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users. On ESXi servers, monitor discovery commands in the `/var/log/shell.log` history file.

