# Local Account (T1087.001)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of local system accounts. This information can help adversaries determine which local accounts exist on a system to aid in follow-on behavior.

Commands such as ```net user``` and ```net localgroup``` of the Net utility and ```id``` and ```groups``` on macOS and Linux can list local users and groups. On Linux, local users can also be enumerated through the use of the ```/etc/passwd``` file. On macOS, the ```dscl . list /Users``` command can be used to enumerate local accounts. On ESXi servers, the `esxcli system account list` command can list local user accounts.

## Parent Technique
- Account Discovery (T1087)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Moses Staff (G1009)
- OilRig (G0049)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT42 (G1044)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Turla (G0010)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Poseidon Group (G0033)
- admin@338 (G0018)
- APT1 (G0006)

## Mitigations
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

Monitor for processes that can be used to enumerate user accounts, such as ```net.exe``` and ```net1.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls (such as ```NetUserEnum()```) that may attempt to gather local accounts information such as type of user, privileges and groups.

#### Group: Group Enumeration (DS0036): 
Monitor for logging that may suggest a list of available groups and/or their associated settings has been extracted, ex. Windows EID 4798 and 4799.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes that can be used to enumerate user accounts and groups such as ```net.exe``` and ```net1.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.
 
Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process creation) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). 
- For Linux, auditing frameworks such as the Linux Auditing System (auditd) can be used to alert on the enumeration/reading of files that store local users, including ```/etc/passwd```. 
- For MacOS, utilities that work in concert with Apple’s Endpoint Security Framework such as Process Monitor can be used to track usage of commands such as ```id``` and ```groups```.

Analytic 1 - Net Discovery Commands

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="net.exe" OR Image="net1.exe"```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for execution of commands and arguments associated with enumeration or information gathering of local accounts and groups such as ```net user```, ```net account```, ```net localgroup```, ```Get-LocalUser```, ``` dscl```, and `esxcli system accounts list`.

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment, and also to an extent in normal network operations. Therefore discovery data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor access to file resources that contain local accounts and groups information such as ```/etc/passwd```, ```/Users``` directories, and the Windows SAM database. 

If access requires high privileges, look for non-admin objects (such as users or processes) attempting to access restricted file resources.

