# Account Discovery (T1087)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of valid accounts, usernames, or email addresses on a system or within a compromised environment. This information can help adversaries determine which accounts exist, which can aid in follow-on behavior such as brute-forcing, spear-phishing attacks, or account takeovers (e.g., Valid Accounts (T1078)).

Adversaries may use several methods to enumerate accounts, including abuse of existing tools, built-in commands, and potential misconfigurations that leak account names and roles or permissions in the targeted environment.

For examples, cloud environments typically provide easily accessible interfaces to obtain user lists. On hosts, adversaries can use default PowerShell (T1059.001) and other command line functionality to identify accounts. Information about email addresses and accounts may also be extracted by searching an infected system’s files.

## Sub-techniques
- Domain Account (T1087.002)
- Local Account (T1087.001)
- Email Account (T1087.003)
- Cloud Account (T1087.004)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- FIN13 (G1016)

## Mitigations
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

Monitor for processes that can be used to enumerate user accounts, such as ```net.exe``` and ```net1.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes that can be used to enumerate user accounts and groups such as ```net.exe``` and ```net1.exe```, especially when executed in quick succession.
 
Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor logs and other sources of command execution history for actions that could be taken to gather information about accounts, including the use of calls to cloud APIs that perform account discovery.

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment, and also to an extent in normal network operations. Therefore discovery data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor access to file resources that contain local accounts and groups information such as ```/etc/passwd```, ```/Users``` directories, and the SAM database. 

If access requires high privileges, look for non-admin objects (such as users or processes) attempting to access restricted file resources.

