# Additional Local or Domain Groups (T1098.007)

## Description
An adversary may add additional local or domain groups to an adversary-controlled account to maintain persistent access to a system or domain.

On Windows, accounts may use the `net localgroup` and `net group` commands to add existing users to local and domain groups. On Linux, adversaries may use the `usermod` command for the same purpose.

For example, accounts may be added to the local administrators group on Windows devices to maintain elevated privileges. They may also be added to the Remote Desktop Users group, which allows them to leverage Remote Desktop Protocol (T1021.001) to log into the endpoints in the future. On Linux, accounts may be added to the sudoers group, allowing them to persistently leverage Sudo and Sudo Caching (T1548.003) for elevated privileges. 

In Windows environments, machine accounts may also be added to domain groups. This allows the local SYSTEM account to gain privileges on the domain.

## Parent Technique
- Account Manipulation (T1098)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT41 (G0096)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Kimsuky (G0094)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor events for changes to account objects and/or permissions on systems and the domain. Monitor for modification of account permissions in correlation with other suspicious activity. Changes may occur at unusual times or from unusual systems. Monitor for unusual permissions changes that may indicate excessively broad permissions being granted to compromised accounts or machine accounts being unexpectedly added into security groups. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles, such as Windows domain administrators, that go over a certain threshold of known admins. 

