# Account Manipulation (T1098)

## Description
Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain and/or elevate access to victim systems. Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves or modifies adversary access to a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of compromised credentials. 

In order to create or manipulate accounts, the adversary must already have sufficient permissions on systems or the domain. However, account manipulation may also lead to privilege escalation where modifications grant access to additional roles, permissions, or higher-privileged Valid Accounts (T1078).

## Sub-techniques
- Additional Cloud Roles (T1098.003)
- Additional Container Cluster Roles (T1098.006)
- Additional Local or Domain Groups (T1098.007)
- SSH Authorized Keys (T1098.004)
- Device Registration (T1098.005)
- Additional Cloud Credentials (T1098.001)
- Additional Email Delegate Permissions (T1098.002)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)

## Mitigations
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection
Collect events that correlate with changes to account objects and/or permissions on systems and the domain, such as event IDs 4738, 4728 and 4670. Monitor for modification of accounts in correlation with other suspicious activity. Changes may occur at unusual times or from unusual systems. Especially flag events where the subject and target accounts differ or that include additional flags such as changing a password without knowledge of the old password.

Monitor for use of credentials at unusual times or to unusual systems or services. This may also correlate with other suspicious activity.

Monitor for unusual permissions changes that may indicate excessively broad permissions being granted to compromised accounts. However, account manipulation may also lead to privilege escalation where modifications grant access to additional roles, permissions, or higher-privileged Valid Accounts (T1078)

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for suspicious commands to modify accounts or account settings (including files such as the `authorized_keys` or `/etc/ssh/sshd_config`).

Monitor executed commands and arguments of suspicious commands (such as `Add-MailboxPermission`) that may be indicative of modifying the permissions of Exchange and other related service settings.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes indicative of modifying account settings, such as those that modify `authorized_keys` or `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` files.

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for the registration or joining of new device objects in Active Directory. Raise alerts when new devices are registered or joined without using MFA.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files related to account settings, such as `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` and the authorized_keys file for each user on a system.

#### Group: Group Modification (DS0036): 
Monitor events for changes to account objects and/or permissions on systems and the domain, such as event IDs 4738, 4728 and 4670.

#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor events for changes to account objects and/or permissions on systems and the domain, such as event IDs 4738, 4728 and 4670. Monitor for modification of accounts in correlation with other suspicious activity. Changes may occur at unusual times or from unusual systems. Especially flag events where the subject and target accounts differ or that include additional flags such as changing a password without knowledge of the old password.

Monitor for unusual permissions changes that may indicate excessively broad permissions being granted to compromised accounts.

