# Replication Through Removable Media (T1091)

## Description
Adversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected or air-gapped networks, by copying malware to removable media and taking advantage of Autorun features when the media is inserted into a system and executes. In the case of Lateral Movement, this may occur through modification of executable files stored on removable media or by copying malware and renaming it to look like a legitimate file to trick users into executing it on a separate system. In the case of Initial Access, this may occur through manual manipulation of the media, modification of systems used to initially format the media, or modification to the media's firmware itself.

Mobile devices may also be used to infect PCs with malware if connected via USB. This infection may be achieved using devices (Android, iOS, etc.) and, in some instances, USB charging cables. For example, when a smartphone is connected to a system, it may appear to be mounted similar to a USB-connected disk drive. If malware that is compatible with the connected system is on the mobile device, the malware could infect the machine (especially if Autorun features are enabled).

## Tactics
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)
- Initial Access (TA0001)

## Related Groups
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Aoqin Dragon (G1007)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Limit Hardware Installation (M1034)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitor file access on removable media. Detect processes that execute from removable media after it is mounted or when initiated by a user. If a remote access tool is used in this manner to move laterally, then additional actions are likely to occur after execution, such as opening network connections for Command and Control and system and network information Discovery.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected files accessed on removable media.

Analytic 1 - File read events from removable media

``` index=windows sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventID=4663
Accesses="ReadData (or ListDirectory)" AND ObjectType="File"
| stats count by ObjectName, Account_Name, ProcessName, ComputerName, _time
| where match(ObjectName, ".*:\\\\RemovableMedia\\\\.*") OR match(ObjectName, ".*:\\\\USB.*")
| table _time, ObjectName, Account_Name, ProcessName, ComputerName ```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that execute from removable media after it is mounted or when initiated by a user. If a remote access tool is used in this manner to move laterally, then additional actions are likely to occur after execution, such as opening network connections for Command and Control and system and network information Discovery.

Analytic 1 - Processes Executing from Removable Media

``` index=windows sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventID=4688
| stats count by New_Process_Name, Creator_Process_Name, Account_Name, ComputerName, _time
| where match(New_Process_Name, ".*:\\\\RemovableMedia\\\\.*") OR match(New_Process_Name, ".*:\\\\USB.*")
| table _time, New_Process_Name, Creator_Process_Name, Account_Name, ComputerName ```

#### Drive: Drive Creation (DS0016): 
Monitor for newly constructed drive letters or mount points to removable media

Analytic 1 - Removable Media Mount Events

``` index=windows sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Partition/Operational" EventID=1006
| stats count by DeviceName, VolumeName, EventID, ComputerName, _time
| where count > 1
| table _time, DeviceName, VolumeName, ComputerName ```

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files on removable media

Analytic 1 - File creation events on removable media

``` index=windows sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventID=4663
Accesses="WriteData (or AddFile)" AND ObjectType="File"
| stats count by ObjectName, Account_Name, ProcessName, ComputerName, _time
| where match(ObjectName, ".*:\\\\RemovableMedia\\\\.*") OR match(ObjectName, ".*:\\\\USB.*")
| table _time, ObjectName, Account_Name, ProcessName, ComputerName ```

