# Proxy (T1090)

## Description
Adversaries may use a connection proxy to direct network traffic between systems or act as an intermediary for network communications to a command and control server to avoid direct connections to their infrastructure. Many tools exist that enable traffic redirection through proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap.  Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command and control communications, reduce the number of simultaneous outbound network connections, provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between victims to avoid suspicion. Adversaries may chain together multiple proxies to further disguise the source of malicious traffic.

Adversaries can also take advantage of routing schemes in Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) to proxy command and control traffic.

## Sub-techniques
- External Proxy (T1090.002)
- Multi-hop Proxy (T1090.003)
- Domain Fronting (T1090.004)
- Internal Proxy (T1090.001)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Turla (G0010)
- CopyKittens (G0052)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- MoustachedBouncer (G1019)
- Windigo (G0124)
- POLONIUM (G1005)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT41 (G0096)

## Mitigations
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- SSL/TLS Inspection (M1020)

## Detection
Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server or between clients that should not or often do not communicate with one another). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used. 

Consider monitoring for traffic to known anonymity networks (such as Tor).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. 

