# Additional Cloud Credentials (T1098.001)

## Description
Adversaries may add adversary-controlled credentials to a cloud account to maintain persistent access to victim accounts and instances within the environment.

For example, adversaries may add credentials for Service Principals and Applications in addition to existing legitimate credentials in Azure / Entra ID. These credentials include both x509 keys and passwords. With sufficient permissions, there are a variety of ways to add credentials including the Azure Portal, Azure command line interface, and Azure or Az PowerShell modules.

In infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environments, after gaining access through Cloud Accounts (T1078.004), adversaries may generate or import their own SSH keys using either the ```CreateKeyPair``` or ```ImportKeyPair``` API in AWS or the ```gcloud compute os-login ssh-keys add``` command in GCP. This allows persistent access to instances within the cloud environment without further usage of the compromised cloud accounts.

Adversaries may also use the ```CreateAccessKey``` API in AWS or the ```gcloud iam service-accounts keys create``` command in GCP to add access keys to an account. Alternatively, they may use the ```CreateLoginProfile``` API in AWS to add a password that can be used to log into the AWS Management Console for Cloud Service Dashboard (T1538). If the target account has different permissions from the requesting account, the adversary may also be able to escalate their privileges in the environment (i.e. Cloud Accounts (T1078.004)). For example, in Entra ID environments, an adversary with the Application Administrator role can add a new set of credentials to their application's service principal. In doing so the adversary would be able to access the service principal’s roles and permissions, which may be different from those of the Application Administrator. 

In AWS environments, adversaries with the appropriate permissions may also use the `sts:GetFederationToken` API call to create a temporary set of credentials to Forge Web Credentials (T1606) tied to the permissions of the original user account. These temporary credentials may remain valid for the duration of their lifetime even if the original account’s API credentials are deactivated.


In Entra ID environments with the app password feature enabled, adversaries may be able to add an app password to a user account. As app passwords are intended to be used with legacy devices that do not support multi-factor authentication (MFA), adding an app password can allow an adversary to bypass MFA requirements. Additionally, app passwords may remain valid even if the user’s primary password is reset.

## Parent Technique
- Account Manipulation (T1098)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Monitor Azure Activity Logs for Service Principal and Application modifications. Monitor for the usage of APIs that create or import SSH keys, particularly by unexpected users or accounts such as the root account.

Monitor for use of credentials at unusual times or to unusual systems or services. This may also correlate with other suspicious activity.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor for unexpected changes to cloud user accounts, such as Azure Activity Logs highlighting malicious Service Principal and Application modifications. 

Monitor for the use of API and CLI commands that add passwords, access keys, or tokens to accounts, such as ```CreateAccessKey```, ```GetFederationToken```, and ```CreateLoginProfile``` in AWS or ```service-accounts keys create``` in GCP. Also monitor for the usage of APIs that create or import SSH keys, particularly by unexpected users or accounts such as the root account. 

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Creation (DS0026): 
Monitor M365 Audit logs for ```Add application``` or ```Add service
principal``` operations involving the AzureActiveDirectory
workloads. Scrutinize extended properties such user agents, app display names, and RequiredAppPermissions (e.g., ImpersonationAccessGrants and DirectAccessGrants).

Analytic 1 - Creation of applications with unusual permissions or from suspicious user agents/IPs.

Note: To detect the creation of potentially malicious applications using hijacked admin credentials or from unusual IP addresses.

``` "index=""m365_audit_logs"" Workload=""AzureActiveDirectory"" Operation=""Add application""
| search ActorUserPrincipalName!=""expected_admin_user""
| table CreationTime, ActorUserPrincipalName, IPAddress, ExtendedProperties, ModifiedProperties"```

Analytic 2 - Creation of service principals with suspicious user agents or from unusual IP addresses.

Note: To detect the creation of potentially malicious service principals using hijacked admin credentials or from unusual IP addresses.

``` "index=""m365_audit_logs"" Workload=""AzureActiveDirectory"" Operation=""Add service principal""
| search ActorUserPrincipalName!=""expected_admin_user""
| table CreationTime, ActorUserPrincipalName, IPAddress, ExtendedProperties, ModifiedProperties"```

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor M365 Audit logs for ```Update application``` or ``` Update Service principal``` operations involving the AzureActiveDirectory workloads. Look for suspicious modified properties RequiredResourceAccess changes.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious modifications to RequiredResourceAccess, unexpected user agents, unusual modification times.

Note: To detect suspicious updates to applications which might indicate the granting of unauthorized permissions or impersonation access.

```"index=""m365_audit_logs"" Workload=""AzureActiveDirectory"" Operation=""Update application""
| search NOT (UserAgent=""expected_user_agent"")
| table CreationTime, UserPrincipalName, IPAddress, ExtendedProperties, ModifiedProperties
" ```

Analytic 2 - Suspicious key descriptions, unexpected user agents, unusual modification times.

Note: To detect suspicious updates to application certificates and secrets, which might indicate unauthorized access or changes.

``` "index=""m365_audit_logs"" Workload=""AzureActiveDirectory"" Operation=""Update application – Certificates and secrets management""
| search NOT (UserAgent=""expected_user_agent"")
| table CreationTime, UserPrincipalName, IPAddress, ExtendedProperties, ModifiedProperties
"```

Analytic 3 - Suspicious service principal names, unexpected user agents, unusual modification times.

Note: To detect suspicious updates to service principals, which might indicate unauthorized access or changes.

``` "index=""m365_audit_logs"" Workload=""AzureActiveDirectory"" Operation=""Update service principal""
| search NOT (UserAgent=""expected_user_agent"")
| table CreationTime, UserPrincipalName, IPAddress, ExtendedProperties, ModifiedProperties
"```

