# Device Registration (T1098.005)

## Description
Adversaries may register a device to an adversary-controlled account. Devices may be registered in a multifactor authentication (MFA) system, which handles authentication to the network, or in a device management system, which handles device access and compliance.

MFA systems, such as Duo or Okta, allow users to associate devices with their accounts in order to complete MFA requirements. An adversary that compromises a user’s credentials may enroll a new device in order to bypass initial MFA requirements and gain persistent access to a network. In some cases, the MFA self-enrollment process may require only a username and password to enroll the account's first device or to enroll a device to an inactive account. 

Similarly, an adversary with existing access to a network may register a device to Entra ID and/or its device management system, Microsoft Intune, in order to access sensitive data or resources while bypassing conditional access policies. 

Devices registered in Entra ID may be able to conduct Internal Spearphishing (T1534) campaigns via intra-organizational emails, which are less likely to be treated as suspicious by the email client. Additionally, an adversary may be able to perform a Service Exhaustion Flood (T1499.002) on an Entra ID tenant by registering a large number of devices.

## Parent Technique
- Account Manipulation (T1098)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 

Entra ID creates several log entries when new devices are enrolled, which can be monitored for unexpected device registrations. Additionally, joined devices can be viewed via the Entra ID portal.

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Creation (DS0026): 
Monitor for the registration or joining of new device objects in Active Directory. Raise alerts when new devices are registered or joined without using MFA.

Analytic 1 - Device registration events with suspicious user agents, unusual OS types, OS versions, or display names.

Note: To detect the registration of potentially malicious devices using hijacked admin credentials or from unusual IP addresses.

``` index="m365_audit_logs" Workload="AzureActiveDirectory" Operation IN ("Add registered owner to device", "Add device", "Add registered users to device")
| search ActorUserPrincipalName!="expected_admin_user"
| table CreationTime, ActorUserPrincipalName, IPAddress, ExtendedProperties, ModifiedProperties```

#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor user accounts for new and suspicious device associations, such as those originating from unusual sources, occurring at unusual times, or following a suspicious login. 

