# Additional Cloud Roles (T1098.003)

## Description
An adversary may add additional roles or permissions to an adversary-controlled cloud account to maintain persistent access to a tenant. For example, adversaries may update IAM policies in cloud-based environments or add a new global administrator in Office 365 environments. With sufficient permissions, a compromised account can gain almost unlimited access to data and settings (including the ability to reset the passwords of other admins).
 

This account modification may immediately follow Create Account (T1136) or other malicious account activity. Adversaries may also modify existing Valid Accounts (T1078) that they have compromised. This could lead to privilege escalation, particularly if the roles added allow for lateral movement to additional accounts.

For example, in AWS environments, an adversary with appropriate permissions may be able to use the ```CreatePolicyVersion``` API to define a new version of an IAM policy or the ```AttachUserPolicy``` API to attach an IAM policy with additional or distinct permissions to a compromised user account.

In some cases, adversaries may add roles to adversary-controlled accounts outside the victim cloud tenant. This allows these external accounts to perform actions inside the victim tenant without requiring the adversary to Create Account (T1136) or modify a victim-owned account.

## Parent Technique
- Account Manipulation (T1098)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Collect activity logs from IAM services and cloud administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the assignment of roles to those accounts. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles that go over a certain threshold of known admins. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Collect usage logs from cloud administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the assignment of roles to those accounts. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles that go over a certain threshold of known admins. Monitor for updates to IAM policies and roles attached to user accounts.

Analytic 1 - Unusual ActorPrincipalNames, unexpected role assignments to sensitive roles (e.g., Global Admin)

Note: To detect the assignment of additional cloud roles using potentially hijacked accounts.

``` "index=""azure_ad_audit_logs"" Category=""RoleManagement"" Activity=""Add member to role""
| search ActorPrincipalName=""*"" AND (Target1ModifiedProperty1NewValue=""Global Administrator"" OR Target1ModifiedProperty2NewValue=""Global Administrator"") AND IPAddress!=""expected_ip""
| table Time, ActorPrincipalName, IPAddress, Target1UserPrincipalName, Target1ModifiedProperty1NewValue"```

