# Modify Registry (T1112)

## Description
Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry as part of a variety of other techniques to aid in defense evasion, persistence, and execution.

Access to specific areas of the Registry depends on account permissions, with some keys requiring administrator-level access. The built-in Windows command-line utility Reg may be used for local or remote Registry modification. Other tools, such as remote access tools, may also contain functionality to interact with the Registry through the Windows API.

The Registry may be modified in order to hide configuration information or malicious payloads via Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027). The Registry may also be modified to Impair Defenses (T1562), such as by enabling macros for all Microsoft Office products, allowing privilege escalation without alerting the user, increasing the maximum number of allowed outbound requests, and/or modifying systems to store plaintext credentials in memory.

The Registry of a remote system may be modified to aid in execution of files as part of lateral movement. It requires the remote Registry service to be running on the target system. Often Valid Accounts (T1078) are required, along with access to the remote system's SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002) for RPC communication.

Finally, Registry modifications may also include actions to hide keys, such as prepending key names with a null character, which will cause an error and/or be ignored when read via Reg or other utilities using the Win32 API. Adversaries may abuse these pseudo-hidden keys to conceal payloads/commands used to maintain persistence.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Turla (G0010)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Silence (G0091)
- TA505 (G0092)
- APT19 (G0073)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT42 (G1044)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- FIN8 (G0061)

## Mitigations
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)

## Detection
Modifications to the Registry are normal and occur throughout typical use of the Windows operating system. Consider enabling Registry Auditing on specific keys to produce an alertable event (Event ID 4657) whenever a value is changed (though this may not trigger when values are created with Reghide or other evasive methods).  Changes to Registry entries that load software on Windows startup that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc., are suspicious, as are additions or changes to files within the startup folder. Changes could also include new services and modification of existing binary paths to point to malicious files. If a change to a service-related entry occurs, then it will likely be followed by a local or remote service start or restart to execute the file.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to change or delete information in the Registry. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. The Registry may also be modified through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001), which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

Monitor for processes, command-line arguments, and API calls associated with concealing Registry keys, such as Reghide.  Inspect and cleanup malicious hidden Registry entries using Native Windows API calls and/or tools such as Autoruns  and RegDelNull .

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys or values. Consider enabling Registry Auditing on specific keys to produce an alertable event (Event ID 4657) whenever a value is changed (though this may not trigger when values are created with Reghide or other evasive methods). Changes to Registry entries that load software on Windows startup that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc., are suspicious, as are additions or changes to files within the startup folder. Changes could also include new services and modification of existing binary paths to point to malicious files. If a change to a service-related entry occurs, then it will likely be followed by a local or remote service start or restart to execute the file.

Detection of modification of the registry key values of Notify, Userinit, and Shell located in `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\` and `HKEY_LOCAL_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\`. When a user logs on, the Registry key values of Notify, Userinit and Shell are used to load dedicated Windows component. Attackers may insert malicious payload following the legitimate value to launch a malicious payload.

Detection of the modification of the registry key Common Startup located in `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders\` and `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders\`. When a user logs on, any files located in the Startup Folder are launched. Attackers may modify these folders with other files in order to evade detection set on these default folders. This detection focuses on EventIDs 4688 and 1 for process creation and EventID 4657 for the modification of the Registry Keys.

Analytic 1 - Registry Edit with Modification of Userinit, Shell or Notify

```source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4657" (ObjectValueName="Userinit" OR ObjectValueName="Shell" OR ObjectValueName="Notify") OR source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="13" (TargetObject="*Userinit" OR TargetObject="*Shell" OR TargetObject="*Notify")```

Analytic 2 - Modification of Default Startup Folder in the Registry Key 'Common Startup'

```(source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4657" ObjectValueName="Common Startup") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="13" TargetObject="*Common Startup")```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with concealing Registry keys, such as `Reghide`. Inspect and cleanup malicious hidden Registry entries using Native Windows API calls and/or tools such as Autoruns and `RegDelNull`. Other API calls relevant to Registry Modification include ```RegOpenKeyExA```, ```RegCreateKeyExA```,```RegDeleteKeyExA```, ```RegDeleteValueExA```, ```RegEnumKeyExA```, ```RegEnumValueExA```, among others.

Note: Most EDR tools do not support direct monitoring of API calls due to the sheer volume of calls produced by an endpoint but may have alerts or events that are based on abstractions of OS API calls. Dynamic malware analysis tools (i.e., sandboxes) can be used to trace the execution, including OS API calls, for a single PE binary. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Remote access to the registry can be achieved via

- Windows API function `RegConnectRegistry`
- command line via `reg.exe`
- graphically via `regedit.exe`

All of these behaviors call into the Windows API, which uses the NamedPipe WINREG over SMB to handle the protocol information. This network can be decoded with Wireshark or a similar sensor, and can also be detected by hooking the API function.

Analytic 1 - Remote Registry

```source="*Zeek:*" (dest_port="445" AND proto_info.pipe="WINREG") OR (proto_info.function="Create*" OR proto_info.function="SetValue*")```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
 Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to change, conceal, and/or delete information in the Registry. The Registry may also be modified through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell, which may require additional logging features to be configured in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Deletion (DS0024): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of windows registry keys to hide configuration information, remove information as part of cleaning up, or as part of other techniques to aid in persistence and execution. 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for newly constructed registry keys or values to aid in persistence and execution - for example, the creation of the registry key `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\SafeDllSearchMode`. The key SafeDllSearchMode, if set to 0, will block the Windows mechanism for the search DLL order and adversaries may execute their own malicious dll.

Analytic 1 - Registry Edit with Creation of SafeDllSearchMode Key Set to 0

```((source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4657")(ObjectValueName="SafeDllSearchMode" value="0")) OR 
((source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="13") EventType="SetValue" TargetObject="*SafeDllSearchMode" Details="DWORD (0x00000000)")))```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to change, conceal, and/or delete information in the Registry. (i.e. `reg.exe`, `regedit.exe`). The analytic is oriented around detecting invocations of Reg where the parent executable is an instance of `cmd.exe` that wasn’t spawned by `explorer.exe`. The built-in utility `reg.exe` provides a command-line interface to the registry, so that queries and modifications can be performed from a shell, such as `cmd.exe`. When a user is responsible for these actions, the parent of `cmd.exe` will typically be `explorer.exe`. Occasionally, power users and administrators write scripts that do this behavior as well, but likely from a different process tree. These background scripts must be baselined so they can be tuned out accordingly. Analytic Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). 

Analytic 1 - Registry Edit with Modification of Userinit, Shell or Notify

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") 
((CommandLine="*reg*" CommandLine="*add*" CommandLine="*/d*") OR ((CommandLine="*Set-ItemProperty*" OR CommandLine="*New-ItemProperty*") AND CommandLine="*-value*")) 
CommandLine="*\\Microsoft\\Windows NT\\CurrentVersion\\Winlogon*" 
(CommandLine="*Userinit*" OR CommandLine="*Shell*" OR CommandLine="*Notify*")```

Analytic 2 - Modification of Default Startup Folder in the Registry Key 'Common Startup'

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") 
(CommandLine="*reg*" AND CommandLine="*add*" AND CommandLine="*/d*") OR 
(CommandLine="*Set-ItemProperty*" AND CommandLine="*-value*") 
CommandLine="*Common Startup*"```

Analytic 3 - Registry Edit with Creation of SafeDllSearchMode Key Set to 0

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688")((CommandLine="*reg*" CommandLine="*add*" CommandLine="*/d*") OR (CommandLine="*Set-ItemProperty*" CommandLine="*-value*")) (CommandLine="*00000000*" OR CommandLine="*0*") CommandLine="*SafeDllSearchMode*")```

