# Brute Force (T1110)

## Description
Adversaries may use brute force techniques to gain access to accounts when passwords are unknown or when password hashes are obtained. Without knowledge of the password for an account or set of accounts, an adversary may systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative mechanism. Brute forcing passwords can take place via interaction with a service that will check the validity of those credentials or offline against previously acquired credential data, such as password hashes.

Brute forcing credentials may take place at various points during a breach. For example, adversaries may attempt to brute force access to Valid Accounts (T1078) within a victim environment leveraging knowledge gathered from other post-compromise behaviors such as OS Credential Dumping (T1003), Account Discovery (T1087), or Password Policy Discovery (T1201). Adversaries may also combine brute forcing activity with behaviors such as External Remote Services (T1133) as part of Initial Access.

## Sub-techniques
- Password Guessing (T1110.001)
- Password Cracking (T1110.002)
- Password Spraying (T1110.003)
- Credential Stuffing (T1110.004)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Turla (G0010)
- DarkVishnya (G0105)
- FIN5 (G0053)
- APT41 (G0096)
- APT38 (G0082)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Agrius (G1030)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- APT28 (G0007)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Account Use Policies (M1036)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Monitor authentication logs for system and application login failures of Valid Accounts (T1078). If authentication failures are high, then there may be a brute force attempt to gain access to a system using legitimate credentials. Also monitor for many failed authentication attempts across various accounts that may result from password spraying attempts. It is difficult to detect when hashes are cracked, since this is generally done outside the scope of the target network.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
 Monitor for many failed authentication attempts across various accounts that may result from password spraying attempts. It is difficult to detect when hashes are cracked, since this is generally done outside the scope of the target network.

Analytic 1 - Multiple failed logon attempts across different accounts.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4625, 5379))
OR (index=security sourcetype="linux_secure" message="Failed password")
OR (index=security sourcetype="macos_secure" message="Failed to authenticate user")```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may use brute force techniques to gain access to accounts when passwords are unknown or when password hashes are obtained.

Analytic 1 - Command-line tools used for brute force attacks.

``` (index=security sourcetype="Powershell" EventCode=4104) OR
(index=os sourcetype="linux_secure" (cmdline IN ("*hydra*", "*medusa*", "*ncrack*", "*patator*", "*john*", "*hashcat*", "*rcrack*", "*w3af*", "*aircrack-ng*"))) OR 
(index=os sourcetype="macos_secure" (cmdline IN ("*hydra*", "*medusa*", "*ncrack*", "*patator*", "*john*", "*hashcat*", "*rcrack*", "*w3af*", "*aircrack-ng*"))) | where match(CommandLine, "(?i)(hydra|medusa|ncrack|patator|john|hashcat|rcrack|w3af|aircrack-ng)") ```

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor authentication logs for system and application login failures of Valid Accounts (T1078). If authentication failures are high, then there may be a brute force attempt to gain access to a system using legitimate credentials.

