# Trusted Developer Utilities Proxy Execution (T1127)

## Description
Adversaries may take advantage of trusted developer utilities to proxy execution of malicious payloads. There are many utilities used for software development related tasks that can be used to execute code in various forms to assist in development, debugging, and reverse engineering. These utilities may often be signed with legitimate certificates that allow them to execute on a system and proxy execution of malicious code through a trusted process that effectively bypasses application control solutions.

Smart App Control is a feature of Windows that blocks applications it considers potentially malicious from running by verifying unsigned applications against a known safe list from a Microsoft cloud service before executing them. However, adversaries may leverage "reputation hijacking" to abuse an operating system’s trust of safe, signed applications that support the execution of arbitrary code. By leveraging Trusted Developer Utilities Proxy Execution (T1127) to run their malicious code, adversaries may bypass Smart App Control protections.

## Sub-techniques
- JamPlus (T1127.003)
- MSBuild (T1127.001)
- ClickOnce (T1127.002)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Monitor for abnormal presence of these or other utilities that enable proxy execution that are typically used for development, debugging, and reverse engineering on a system that is not used for these purposes may be suspicious.

Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of from developer utilities that may be abused. Compare recent invocations of those binaries with prior history of known good arguments and executed binaries to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. It is likely that these utilities will be used by software developers or for other software development related tasks, so if it exists and is used outside of that context, then the event may be suspicious. Command arguments used before and after invocation of the utilities may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the binary being executed.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments used before and after invocation of the utilities may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the binary being executed.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor trusted developer utility activity with unsigned module loads.

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Evaluate Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) telemetry associated with the execution of developer utilities.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for abnormal presence of these or other utilities that enable proxy execution that are typically used for development, debugging, and reverse engineering on a system that is not used for these purposes may be suspicious. Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of from developer utilities that may be abused. Compare recent invocations of those binaries with prior history of known good arguments and executed binaries to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. It is likely that these utilities will be used by software developers or for other software development related tasks, so if it exists and is used outside of that context, then the event may be suspicious.

