# ClickOnce (T1127.002)

## Description
Adversaries may use ClickOnce applications (.appref-ms and .application files) to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility. ClickOnce is a deployment that enables a user to create self-updating Windows-based .NET applications (i.e, .XBAP, .EXE, or .DLL) that install and run from a file share or web page with minimal user interaction. The application launches as a child process of DFSVC.EXE, which is responsible for installing, launching, and updating the application.

Because ClickOnce applications receive only limited permissions, they do not require administrative permissions to install. As such, adversaries may abuse ClickOnce to proxy execution of malicious code without needing to escalate privileges.

ClickOnce may be abused in a number of ways. For example, an adversary may rely on User Execution (T1204). When a user visits a malicious website, the .NET malware is disguised as legitimate software and a ClickOnce popup is displayed for installation.

Adversaries may also abuse ClickOnce to execute malware via a Rundll32 (T1218.011) script using the command `rundll32.exe dfshim.dll,ShOpenVerbApplication1`.

Additionally, an adversary can move the ClickOnce application file to a remote user’s startup folder for continued malicious code deployment (i.e., Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder (T1547.001)).

## Parent Technique
- Trusted Developer Utilities Proxy Execution (T1127)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)
- Code Signing (M1045)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed child processes of dfsvc.exe that may be indicative of malicious ClickOnce applications.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
When executed from the command line, rundll32 is used to call the ClickOnce API functions (ex: `rundll32.exe dfshim.dll,ShOpenVerbApplication file.appref-ms`).

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Evaluate Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) telemetry associated with ClickOnce deployment execution.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor dfsvc.exe child process activity with unsigned module loads, as well as activity associated with dfshim.dll. Compare with baseline of ClickOne activity to whitelist applications with valid business use-cases.

