# System Time Discovery (T1124)

## Description
An adversary may gather the system time and/or time zone settings from a local or remote system. The system time is set and stored by services, such as the Windows Time Service on Windows or ```systemsetup``` on macOS. These time settings may also be synchronized between systems and services in an enterprise network, typically accomplished with a network time server within a domain.

System time information may be gathered in a number of ways, such as with Net on Windows by performing ```net time \\hostname``` to gather the system time on a remote system. The victim's time zone may also be inferred from the current system time or gathered by using ```w32tm /tz```. In addition, adversaries can discover device uptime through functions such as ```GetTickCount()``` to determine how long it has been since the system booted up.

On network devices, Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands such as `show clock detail` can be used to see the current time configuration. On ESXi servers, `esxcli system clock get` can be used for the same purpose.

In addition, system calls – such as ```time()``` – have been used to collect the current time on Linux devices. On macOS systems, adversaries may use commands such as ```systemsetup -gettimezone``` or ```timeIntervalSinceNow``` to gather current time zone information or current date and time.

This information could be useful for performing other techniques, such as executing a file with a Scheduled Task/Job (T1053), or to discover locality information based on time zone to assist in victim targeting (i.e. System Location Discovery (T1614)). Adversaries may also use knowledge of system time as part of a time bomb, or delaying execution until a specified date/time.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- CURIUM (G1012)
- Turla (G0010)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- The White Company (G0089)

## Detection
Command-line interface monitoring may be useful to detect instances of net.exe or other command-line utilities being used to gather system time or time zone. Methods of detecting API use for gathering this information are likely less useful due to how often they may be used by legitimate software.

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor `show` commands being run by non-standard users from non-standard locations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may gather the system time and/or time zone from a local or remote system. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that may gather the system time and/or time zone from a local or remote system.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may gather the system time and/or time zone from a local or remote system.

