# Token Impersonation/Theft (T1134.001)

## Description
Adversaries may duplicate then impersonate another user's existing token to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. For example, an adversary can duplicate an existing token using `DuplicateToken` or `DuplicateTokenEx`. The token can then be used with `ImpersonateLoggedOnUser` to allow the calling thread to impersonate a logged on user's security context, or with `SetThreadToken` to assign the impersonated token to a thread.

An adversary may perform Token Impersonation/Theft (T1134.001) when they have a specific, existing process they want to assign the duplicated token to. For example, this may be useful for when the target user has a non-network logon session on the system.

When an adversary would instead use a duplicated token to create a new process rather than attaching to an existing process, they can additionally Create Process with Token (T1134.002) using `CreateProcessWithTokenW` or `CreateProcessAsUserW`. Token Impersonation/Theft (T1134.001) is also distinct from Make and Impersonate Token (T1134.003) in that it refers to duplicating an existing token, rather than creating a new one.

## Parent Technique
- Access Token Manipulation (T1134)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT28 (G0007)
- FIN8 (G0061)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
If an adversary is using a standard command-line shell, analysts can detect token manipulation by auditing command-line activity. Specifically, analysts should look for use of the ```runas``` command. Detailed command-line logging is not enabled by default in Windows.

Analysts can also monitor for use of Windows APIs such as ```DuplicateToken(Ex)```, ``` ImpersonateLoggedOnUser ```, and ``` SetThreadToken ``` and correlate activity with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives that may be due to normal benign use by users and administrators.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments to detect token manipulation by auditing command-line activity. Specifically, analysts should look for use of the runas command. Detailed command-line logging is not enabled by default in Windows.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives that may be due to normal benign use by users and administrators, such as DuplicateToken(Ex), ImpersonateLoggedOnUser , and SetThreadToken. 

