# Office Application Startup (T1137)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups. Microsoft Office is a fairly common application suite on Windows-based operating systems within an enterprise network. There are multiple mechanisms that can be used with Office for persistence when an Office-based application is started; this can include the use of Office Template Macros and add-ins.

A variety of features have been discovered in Outlook that can be abused to obtain persistence, such as Outlook rules, forms, and Home Page. These persistence mechanisms can work within Outlook or be used through Office 365.

## Sub-techniques
- Add-ins (T1137.006)
- Outlook Rules (T1137.005)
- Office Template Macros (T1137.001)
- Outlook Forms (T1137.003)
- Outlook Home Page (T1137.004)
- Office Test (T1137.002)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT32 (G0050)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Software Configuration (M1054)

## Detection
Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior. If winword.exe is the parent process for suspicious processes and activity relating to other adversarial techniques, then it could indicate that the application was used maliciously.

Many Office-related persistence mechanisms require changes to the Registry and for binaries, files, or scripts to be written to disk or existing files modified to include malicious scripts. Collect events related to Registry key creation and modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence.

Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Many Office-related persistence mechanisms require changes to the Registry and for binaries, files, or scripts to be written to disk or existing files modified to include malicious scripts. Collect events related to Registry key creation and modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups. Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior. If winword.exe is the parent process for suspicious processes and activity relating to other adversarial techniques, then it could indicate that the application was used maliciously.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Many Office-related persistence mechanisms require changes to the Registry and for binaries, files, or scripts to be written to disk or existing files modified to include malicious scripts. Collect events related to Registry key creation and modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may leverage Microsoft Office-based applications for persistence between startups. Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

