# Outlook Rules (T1137.005)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook rules to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Outlook rules allow a user to define automated behavior to manage email messages. A benign rule might, for example, automatically move an email to a particular folder in Outlook if it contains specific words from a specific sender. Malicious Outlook rules can be created that can trigger code execution when an adversary sends a specifically crafted email to that user.

Once malicious rules have been added to the user’s mailbox, they will be loaded when Outlook is started. Malicious rules will execute when an adversary sends a specifically crafted email to the user.

## Parent Technique
- Office Application Startup (T1137)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output. This PowerShell script is ineffective in gathering rules with modified `PRPR_RULE_MSG_NAME` and `PR_RULE_MSG_PROVIDER` properties caused by adversaries using a Microsoft Exchange Server Messaging API Editor (MAPI Editor), so only examination with the Exchange Administration tool MFCMapi can reveal these mail forwarding rules. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse Microsoft Outlook rules to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may abuse Microsoft Outlook rules to obtain persistence on a compromised system. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Microsoft Outlook rules to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output. This PowerShell script is ineffective in gathering rules with modified PR_RULE_MSG_NAME and PR_RULE_MSG_PROVIDER properties caused by adversaries using a Microsoft Exchange Server Messaging API Editor (MAPI Editor), so only examination with the Exchange Administration tool MFCMapi can reveal these mail forwarding rules.

