# Outlook Forms (T1137.003)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook forms to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Outlook forms are used as templates for presentation and functionality in Outlook messages. Custom Outlook forms can be created that will execute code when a specifically crafted email is sent by an adversary utilizing the same custom Outlook form.

Once malicious forms have been added to the user’s mailbox, they will be loaded when Outlook is started. Malicious forms will execute when an adversary sends a specifically crafted email to the user.

## Parent Technique
- Office Application Startup (T1137)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
 Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may abuse Microsoft Outlook forms to obtain persistence on a compromised system. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Microsoft Outlook forms to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse Microsoft Outlook forms to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

