# Office Test (T1137.002)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system. An Office Test Registry location exists that allows a user to specify an arbitrary DLL that will be executed every time an Office application is started. This Registry key is thought to be used by Microsoft to load DLLs for testing and debugging purposes while developing Office applications. This Registry key is not created by default during an Office installation.

There exist user and global Registry keys for the Office Test feature, such as:

* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf```
* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf```

Adversaries may add this Registry key and specify a malicious DLL that will be executed whenever an Office application, such as Word or Excel, is started.

## Parent Technique
- Office Application Startup (T1137)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT28 (G0007)

## Mitigations
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitor for the creation of the Office Test Registry key. Many Office-related persistence mechanisms require changes to the Registry and for binaries, files, or scripts to be written to disk or existing files modified to include malicious scripts. Collect events related to Registry key creation and modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence. Since v13.52, Autoruns can detect tasks set up using the Office Test Registry key.

Consider monitoring Office processes for anomalous DLL loads.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for the creation of the Office Test Registry key. Collect events related to Registry key creation for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence. Since v13.52, Autoruns can detect tasks set up using the Office Test Registry key.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to the Office Test Registry key. Collect events related to Registry key modification for keys that could be used for Office-based persistence. Since v13.52, Autoruns can detect tasks set up using the Office Test Registry key.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse the Microsoft Office "Office Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process.

