# Standard Encoding (T1132.001)

## Description
Adversaries may encode data with a standard data encoding system to make the content of command and control traffic more difficult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a standard data encoding system that adheres to existing protocol specifications. Common data encoding schemes include ASCII, Unicode, hexadecimal, Base64, and MIME. Some data encoding systems may also result in data compression, such as gzip.

## Parent Technique
- Data Encoding (T1132)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- APT42 (G1044)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- TA551 (G0127)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- APT19 (G0073)
- APT33 (G0064)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)

## Detection
Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor for network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used.

