# Cloud Account (T1136.003)

## Description
Adversaries may create a cloud account to maintain access to victim systems. With a sufficient level of access, such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that does not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

In addition to user accounts, cloud accounts may be associated with services. Cloud providers handle the concept of service accounts in different ways. In Azure, service accounts include service principals and managed identities, which can be linked to various resources such as OAuth applications, serverless functions, and virtual machines in order to grant those resources permissions to perform various activities in the environment. In GCP, service accounts can also be linked to specific resources, as well as be impersonated by other accounts for Temporary Elevated Cloud Access (T1548.005). While AWS has no specific concept of service accounts, resources can be directly granted permission to assume roles.

Adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific cloud services, which can reduce the chance of detection.

Once an adversary has created a cloud account, they can then manipulate that account to ensure persistence and allow access to additional resources - for example, by adding Additional Cloud Credentials (T1098.001) or assigning Additional Cloud Roles (T1098.003).

## Parent Technique
- Create Account (T1136)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT29 (G0016)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)

## Mitigations
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Collect usage logs from cloud user and administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the creation of new accounts and assignment of roles to those accounts. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles that go over a certain threshold of known admins.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed user accounts through the collection of usage logs from cloud user and administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the creation of new accounts, such as accounts that do not follow specified naming conventions or accounts created by unapproved users or sources. Monitor for newly created admin accounts that go over a certain threshold of known admins.

Analytic 1 - Unusual ActorPrincipalNames, creation of accounts with suspicious properties

``` index="azure_ad_audit_logs" Category="UserManagement" Activity="Add user"
| search ActorPrincipalName="*" AND IPAddress!="expected_ip"
| table Time, ActorPrincipalName, IPAddress, Target1UserPrincipalName, Target1DisplayName```

