# Add-ins (T1137.006)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Office add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Office add-ins can be used to add functionality to Office programs.  There are different types of add-ins that can be used by the various Office products; including Word/Excel add-in Libraries (WLL/XLL), VBA add-ins, Office Component Object Model (COM) add-ins, automation add-ins, VBA Editor (VBE), Visual Studio Tools for Office (VSTO) add-ins, and Outlook add-ins. 

Add-ins can be used to obtain persistence because they can be set to execute code when an Office application starts. 

## Parent Technique
- Office Application Startup (T1137)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Naikon (G0019)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitor and validate the Office trusted locations on the file system and audit the Registry entries relevant for enabling add-ins.

Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Audit the Registry entries relevant for enabling add-ins.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may abuse Microsoft Office add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Microsoft Office add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system. 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Audit the Registry entries relevant for enabling add-ins.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse Microsoft Office add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may abuse Microsoft Office add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

