# Domain Account (T1136.002)

## Description
Adversaries may create a domain account to maintain access to victim systems. Domain accounts are those managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are configured across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can cover user, administrator, and service accounts. With a sufficient level of access, the ```net user /add /domain``` command can be used to create a domain account.

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

## Parent Technique
- Create Account (T1136)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with domain account creation, such as ```net user /add /domain```. Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows domain controller.  Perform regular audits of domain accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes associated with account creation, such as net.exe

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that are associated with local account creation, such as net user /add /domain.

#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed user accounts through account audits to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. Collect data on account creation within a network or Windows Event ID 4720 (for when a user account is created on a Windows system and domain controller).

