# Outlook Home Page (T1137.004)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook's Home Page feature to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Outlook Home Page is a legacy feature used to customize the presentation of Outlook folders. This feature allows for an internal or external URL to be loaded and presented whenever a folder is opened. A malicious HTML page can be crafted that will execute code when loaded by Outlook Home Page.

Once malicious home pages have been added to the user’s mailbox, they will be loaded when Outlook is started. Malicious Home Pages will execute when the right Outlook folder is loaded/reloaded.


## Parent Technique
- Office Application Startup (T1137)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- OilRig (G0049)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

Collect process execution information including process IDs (PID) and parent process IDs (PPID) and look for abnormal chains of activity resulting from Office processes. Non-standard process execution trees may also indicate suspicious or malicious behavior.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may abuse Microsoft Outlook's Home Page feature to obtain persistence on a compromised system. SensePost, whose tool Ruler can be used to carry out malicious rules, forms, and Home Page attacks, has released a tool to detect Ruler usage.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Microsoft Outlook's Home Page feature to obtain persistence on a compromised system. Microsoft has released a PowerShell script to safely gather mail forwarding rules and custom forms in your mail environment as well as steps to interpret the output.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse Microsoft Outlook's Home Page feature to obtain persistence on a compromised system.

