# Local Account (T1136.001)

## Description
Adversaries may create a local account to maintain access to victim systems. Local accounts are those configured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on a single system or service. 

For example, with a sufficient level of access, the Windows ```net user /add``` command can be used to create a local account.  In Linux, the `useradd` command can be used, while on macOS systems, the ```dscl -create``` command can be used. Local accounts may also be added to network devices, often via common Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands such as ```username```, to ESXi servers via `esxcli system account add`, or to Kubernetes clusters using the `kubectl` utility.

Such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

## Parent Technique
- Create Account (T1136)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- APT41 (G0096)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- APT3 (G0022)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with local account creation, such as ```net user /add``` , ```useradd``` , and ```dscl -create``` . Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows system.  Perform regular audits of local system accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for account creations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed user and service accounts through account audits to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. Collect data on account creation within a network, a Kubernetes cluster, or Windows Event ID 4720 (for when a user account is created on a Windows system and domain controller).

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes associated with account creation, such as net.exe

Analytic 1 - Create local admin accounts using net.exe

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") (Image= C:\Windows\System32\net.exe OR Image= C:\Windows\System32\net1.exe ) AND CommandLine = * -exportPFX * )```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that are associated with local account creation, such as `net user /add`, `useradd`, `dscl -create`, `esxcli system account add`, and `kubectl create serviceaccount`.

