# Create Account (T1136)

## Description
Adversaries may create an account to maintain access to victim systems. With a sufficient level of access, creating such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.

Accounts may be created on the local system or within a domain or cloud tenant. In cloud environments, adversaries may create accounts that only have access to specific services, which can reduce the chance of detection.

## Sub-techniques
- Local Account (T1136.001)
- Domain Account (T1136.002)
- Cloud Account (T1136.003)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Salt Typhoon (G1045)

## Mitigations
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor for processes and command-line parameters associated with account creation, such as ```net user``` or ```useradd```. Collect data on account creation within a network. Event ID 4720 is generated when a user account is created on a Windows system and domain controller.  Perform regular audits of domain and local system accounts to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary.

Collect usage logs from cloud administrator accounts to identify unusual activity in the creation of new accounts and assignment of roles to those accounts. Monitor for accounts assigned to admin roles that go over a certain threshold of known admins.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes associated with account creation, such as net.exe 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that are associated with account creation, such as net user or useradd

#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed user accounts through account audits to detect suspicious accounts that may have been created by an adversary. Collect data on account creation within a network or Windows Event ID 4720 (for when a user account is created on a Windows system and domain controller).

