# Deobfuscate/Decode Files or Information (T1140)

## Description
Adversaries may use Obfuscated Files or Information (T1027) to hide artifacts of an intrusion from analysis. They may require separate mechanisms to decode or deobfuscate that information depending on how they intend to use it. Methods for doing that include built-in functionality of malware or by using utilities present on the system.

One such example is the use of certutil to decode a remote access tool portable executable file that has been hidden inside a certificate file. Another example is using the Windows ```copy /b``` or ```type``` command to reassemble binary fragments into a malicious payload.

Sometimes a user's action may be required to open it for deobfuscation or decryption as part of User Execution (T1204). The user may also be required to input a password to open a password protected compressed/encrypted file that was provided by the adversary.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Turla (G0010)
- APT39 (G0087)
- WIRTE (G0090)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Agrius (G1030)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Molerats (G0021)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- APT28 (G0007)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Malteiro (G1026)
- APT19 (G0073)
- Higaisa (G0126)

## Detection
Detecting the action of deobfuscating or decoding files or information may be difficult depending on the implementation. If the functionality is contained within malware and uses the Windows API, then attempting to detect malicious behavior before or after the action may yield better results than attempting to perform analysis on loaded libraries or API calls. If scripts are used, then collecting the scripts for analysis may be necessary. Perform process and command-line monitoring to detect potentially malicious behavior related to scripts and system utilities such as certutil.

Monitor the execution file paths and command-line arguments for common archive file applications and extensions, such as those for Zip and RAR archive tools, and correlate with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives from normal user and administrator behavior.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that attempt to hide artifacts of an intrusion, such as common archive file applications and extensions (ex: Zip and RAR archive tools), and correlate with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives from normal user and administrator behavior.

CertUtil.exe may be used to encode and decode a file, including PE and script code. Encoding will convert a file to base64 with -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE----- and -----END CERTIFICATE----- tags. Malicious usage will include decoding an encoded file that was downloaded. Once decoded, it will be loaded by a parallel process. Note that there are two additional command switches that may be used - encodehex and decodehex. Similarly, the file will be encoded in HEX and later decoded for further execution. During triage, identify the source of the file being decoded. Review its contents or execution behavior for further analysis.

Analytic Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The analytic is oriented around the creation of CertUtil.exe processes, which may be used to encode and decode files, including PE and script code. Malicious usage will include decoding a encoded file that was downloaded. Once decoded, it will be loaded by a parallel process.

Analytic 1 - CertUtil with Decode Argument

```  (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image=”C:\Windows\System32\certutil.exe” AND
  CommandLine= *decode* )```

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files for unexpected modifications that attempt to hide artifacts. On Windows, Event ID 4663 (Security Log - An attempt was made to access an object) can be used to alert on suspicious file accesses (e.g., attempting to write to a file which shouldn’t be further modified) that may coincide with attempts to hide artifacts. 

