# IDE Extensions (T1176.002)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse an integrated development environment (IDE) extension to establish persistent access to victim systems. IDEs such as Visual Studio Code, IntelliJ IDEA, and Eclipse support extensions - software components that add features like code linting, auto-completion, task automation, or integration with tools like Git and Docker. A malicious extension can be installed through an extension marketplace (i.e., Compromise Software Dependencies and Development Tools (T1195.001)) or side-loaded directly into the IDE.   

In addition to installing malicious extensions, adversaries may also leverage benign ones. For example, adversaries may establish persistent SSH tunnels via the use of the VSCode Remote SSH extension (i.e., IDE Tunneling (T1219.001)).  

Trust is typically established through the installation process; once installed, the malicious extension is run every time that the IDE is launched. The extension can then be used to execute arbitrary code, establish a backdoor, mine cryptocurrency, or exfiltrate data.

## Parent Technique
- Software Extensions (T1176)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Audit (M1047)
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for Unexpected launches of IDEs (code.exe, idea64.exe, eclipse, jetbrains-gateway) especially on servers or non-dev endpoints.
Execution of these binaries with suspicious flags (--install-extension, --force, --disable-extensions).
Parent processes not commonly associated with developer workflows (e.g., cmd.exe, powershell.exe, or unknown binaries).

Analytic 1 - suspicious process executions 

```sourcetype=WinEventLog:Sysmon EventCode=1
(Image="*\\code.exe" OR Image="*\\idea64.exe" OR Image="*\\eclipse.exe" OR Image="*\\jetbrains-gateway.exe")
| eval is_unexpected_host=if(like(Computer, "%server%") OR like(Computer, "%prod%"), "yes", "no")
| stats count by Image, CommandLine, ParentImage, User, Computer, is_unexpected_host, _time
| where is_unexpected_host="yes"
| sort -_time
 ``` 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor for network traffic directed towards IDE services, such as ```global.rel.tunnels.api.visualstudio.com```, from servers or network zones that should not be communicating with this service. 

Analytic 1 - suspicious network connections 

``` sourcetype=zeek:conn_log OR sourcetype=zeek:http_log OR sourcetype=suricata_flow
(host="*.tunnels.api.visualstudio.com" OR host="*.jetbrains.com")
| lookup endpoint_asset_zones ip AS src_ip OUTPUT zone
| where zone="prod" OR zone="non-dev"
| stats count by src_ip, dest_ip, host, uri_path, http_method, zone, _time
| sort -_time
```

