# Password Policy Discovery (T1201)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment. Password policies are a way to enforce complex passwords that are difficult to guess or crack through Brute Force (T1110). This information may help the adversary to create a list of common passwords and launch dictionary and/or brute force attacks which adheres to the policy (e.g. if the minimum password length should be 8, then not trying passwords such as 'pass123'; not checking for more than 3-4 passwords per account if the lockout is set to 6 as to not lock out accounts).

Password policies can be set and discovered on Windows, Linux, and macOS systems via various command shell utilities such as ```net accounts (/domain)```, ```Get-ADDefaultDomainPasswordPolicy```, ```chage -l <username>```, ```cat /etc/pam.d/common-password```, and ```pwpolicy getaccountpolicies```  . Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI (T1059.008) on network devices to discover password policy information (e.g. ```show aaa```, ```show aaa common-criteria policy all```).

Password policies can be discovered in cloud environments using available APIs such as ```GetAccountPasswordPolicy``` in AWS .

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- OilRig (G0049)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Turla (G0010)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Monitor logs and processes for tools and command line arguments that may indicate they're being used for password policy discovery. Correlate that activity with other suspicious activity from the originating system to reduce potential false positives from valid user or administrator activity. Adversaries will likely attempt to find the password policy early in an operation and the activity is likely to happen with other Discovery activity.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Metadata (DS0002): 
Monitor for contextual data about an account that may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment.

