# Malicious Copy and Paste (T1204.004)

## Description
An adversary may rely upon a user copying and pasting code in order to gain execution. Users may be subjected to social engineering to get them to copy and paste code directly into a Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059).  

Malicious websites, such as those used in Drive-by Compromise (T1189), may present fake error messages or CAPTCHA prompts that instruct users to open a terminal or the Windows Run Dialog box and execute an arbitrary command. These commands may be obfuscated using encoding or other techniques to conceal malicious intent. Once executed, the adversary will typically be able to establish a foothold on the victim's machine.

Adversaries may also leverage phishing emails for this purpose. When a user attempts to open an attachment, they may be presented with a fake error and offered a malicious command to paste as a solution.

Tricking a user into executing a command themselves may help to bypass email filtering, browser sandboxing, or other mitigations designed to protect users against malicious downloaded files. 

## Parent Technique
- User Execution (T1204)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for files created on a system after a user executes an unusual command. Look for common download paths and suspicious files with executable extensions. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated with web-based network connections that are sent to malicious or suspicious destinations (e.g. destinations attributed to malicious actors). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Detect commands triggered by users that may download malicious files. Items typed into the Windows Run dialog are saved for each user in the `HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\RunMRU` Registry key.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Identify processes spawned by user actions that could lead to malicious execution. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic patterns associated with user actions, such as initiating connections to suspicious sites. 

