# Indirect Command Execution (T1202)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse utilities that allow for command execution to bypass security restrictions that limit the use of command-line interpreters. Various Windows utilities may be used to execute commands, possibly without invoking cmd. For example, Forfiles, the Program Compatibility Assistant (`pcalua.exe`), components of the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), `Scriptrunner.exe`, as well as other utilities may invoke the execution of programs and commands from a Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059), Run window, or via scripts. Adversaries may also abuse the `ssh.exe` binary to execute malicious commands via the `ProxyCommand` and `LocalCommand` options, which can be invoked via the `-o` flag or by modifying the SSH config file.

Adversaries may abuse these features for Defense Evasion (TA0005), specifically to perform arbitrary execution while subverting detections and/or mitigation controls (such as Group Policy) that limit/prevent the usage of cmd or file extensions more commonly associated with malicious payloads.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- RedCurl (G1039)

## Detection
Monitor and analyze logs from host-based detection mechanisms, such as Sysmon, for events such as process creations that include or are resulting from parameters associated with invoking programs/commands/files and/or spawning child processes/network connections. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments to bypass security restrictions that limit the use of command-line interpreters. Look for suspicious command-line arguments, such as `ssh.exe` used with the `ProxyCommand` or `LocalCommand` options. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that can be used instead of invoking cmd (i.e. `pcalua.exe`, `winrs.exe`, `cscript/wscript.exe`, `hh.exe`, `ssh.exe`, or `bash.exe`). Compare recent invocations of utilities with prior history of known good arguments to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity.

