# Malicious Image (T1204.003)

## Description
Adversaries may rely on a user running a malicious image to facilitate execution. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Images, and Azure Images as well as popular container runtimes such as Docker can be backdoored. Backdoored images may be uploaded to a public repository via Upload Malware (T1608.001), and users may then download and deploy an instance or container from the image without realizing the image is malicious, thus bypassing techniques that specifically achieve Initial Access. This can lead to the execution of malicious code, such as code that executes cryptocurrency mining, in the instance or container.

Adversaries may also name images a certain way to increase the chance of users mistakenly deploying an instance or container from the image (ex: Match Legitimate Resource Name or Location (T1036.005)).

## Parent Technique
- User Execution (T1204)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)

## Mitigations
- Code Signing (M1045)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- User Training (M1017)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Monitor the local image registry to make sure malicious images are not added. Track the deployment of new containers, especially from newly built images. Monitor the behavior of containers within the environment to detect anomalous behavior or malicious activity after users deploy from malicious images.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor logs from cloud platforms like AWS, GCP, or Azure to detect anomalies related to container or image execution. Look for unusual patterns or log events that deviate from typical behavior.

Analytic 1 - Unusual application logs indicating image execution anomalies.

```sourcetype=application_log EventCode=1000 OR EventCode=1001
| search log_level=ERROR OR log_level=WARNING OR message IN ("failed to pull image", "container crash", "unauthorized access") ```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for suspicious commands related to image or container manipulation, especially commands run from users not typically associated with these tasks.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected command execution related to image files.

```sourcetype=command_execution
| search command IN ("docker pull", "docker run", "docker exec", "kubectl run", "gcloud container images list-tags", "aws ec2 run-instances")```

#### Image: Image Creation (DS0007): 
Monitor the local image registry to make sure malicious images are not added.

#### Container: Container Start (DS0032): 
Monitor the behavior of containers within the environment to detect anomalous behavior or malicious activity after users deploy from malicious images.

#### Container: Container Creation (DS0032): 
Track the deployment of new containers, especially from newly built images.

#### Instance: Instance Start (DS0030): 
Monitor for the activation or invocation of an instance (ex: instance.start within GCP Audit Logs)

#### Instance: Instance Creation (DS0030): 
Monitor for newly constructed instances that may attempt to take advantage of a weakness in an Internet-facing computer or program using software, data, or commands in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior.

