# Browser Information Discovery (T1217)

## Description
Adversaries may enumerate information about browsers to learn more about compromised environments. Data saved by browsers (such as bookmarks, accounts, and browsing history) may reveal a variety of personal information about users (e.g., banking sites, relationships/interests, social media, etc.) as well as details about internal network resources such as servers, tools/dashboards, or other related infrastructure.

Browser information may also highlight additional targets after an adversary has access to valid credentials, especially Credentials In Files (T1552.001) associated with logins cached by a browser.

Specific storage locations vary based on platform and/or application, but browser information is typically stored in local files and databases (e.g., `%APPDATA%/Google/Chrome`).

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Chimera (G0114)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather browser bookmark information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly using APIs to gather information. Information may also be acquired through system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes with arguments that may be associated with gathering browser information, such as local files and databases (e.g., `%APPDATA%/Google/Chrome`).

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to gather browser information, such as local files and databases (e.g., `%APPDATA%/Google/Chrome`). Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly using APIs to gather information. Information may also be acquired through system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for unusual access to stored browser data, such as local files and databases (e.g., `%APPDATA%/Google/Chrome`). Rather than viewing these events in isolation, this activity may highlight a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration.

