# Remote Access Hardware (T1219.003)

## Description
An adversary may use legitimate remote access hardware to establish an interactive command and control channel to target systems within networks. These services, including IP-based keyboard, video, or mouse (KVM) devices such as TinyPilot and PiKVM, are commonly used as legitimate tools and may be allowed by peripheral device policies within a target environment.  

Remote access hardware may be physically installed and used post-compromise as an alternate communications channel for redundant access or as a way to establish an interactive remote session with the target system. Using hardware-based remote access tools may allow threat actors to bypass software security solutions and gain more control over the compromised device(s).

## Parent Technique
- Remote Access Tools (T1219)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Mitigations
- Limit Hardware Installation (M1034)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Drive: Drive Creation (DS0016): 
Monitor for newly constructed drives or other related events associated with computer hardware and other accessories (especially new or unknown) being connected to systems. Endpoint sensors may be able to detect the addition of hardware via USB and other external device communication ports. For example, by default TinyPilot declares its manufacturer name as `tinypilot` and its serial number as `6b65796d696d6570690` within the `/opt/tinypilot-privileged/init-usb-gadget` directory. It also announces itself as `TinyPilot` within its EDID (Extended Display Identification Data).

Analytic 1 - USB Device Enumeration

``` (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-DriverFrameworks-UserMode/Operational" OR sourcetype="syslog")
(EventCode=2003 OR EventCode=2100 OR message="*tinypilot*" OR message="*TinyPilot*")
| eval timestamp=_time
| table timestamp, host, user, DeviceClass, FriendlyName, VendorID, ProductID, SerialNumber
| sort by timestamp desc ```

