# Regsvr32 (T1218.010)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Regsvr32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Regsvr32.exe is a command-line program used to register and unregister object linking and embedding controls, including dynamic link libraries (DLLs), on Windows systems. The Regsvr32.exe binary may also be signed by Microsoft. 

Malicious usage of Regsvr32.exe may avoid triggering security tools that may not monitor execution of, and modules loaded by, the regsvr32.exe process because of allowlists or false positives from Windows using regsvr32.exe for normal operations. Regsvr32.exe can also be used to specifically bypass application control using functionality to load COM scriptlets to execute DLLs under user permissions. Since Regsvr32.exe is network and proxy aware, the scripts can be loaded by passing a uniform resource locator (URL) to file on an external Web server as an argument during invocation. This method makes no changes to the Registry as the COM object is not actually registered, only executed.  This variation of the technique is often referred to as a "Squiblydoo" and has been used in campaigns targeting governments.  

Regsvr32.exe can also be leveraged to register a COM Object used to establish persistence via Component Object Model Hijacking (T1546.015). 

## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- TA551 (G0127)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Inception (G0100)
- WIRTE (G0090)
- APT32 (G0050)
- APT19 (G0073)

## Mitigations
- Exploit Protection (M1050)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of regsvr32.exe. Compare recent invocations of regsvr32.exe with prior history of known good arguments and loaded files to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. Command arguments used before and after the regsvr32.exe invocation may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the script or DLL being loaded. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process.

Note: This looks for unsigned images that may be loaded by regsvr32, while attempting to eliminate false positives stemming from Windows/Program Files binaries.

Analytic 5 - Loading Unsigned Images 

```(sourcetype=WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational EventCode="7") (Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\regsvr32.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\SysWOW64\\regsvr32.exe") Signed=false ImageLoaded!="C:\\Program Files*" ImageLoaded!="C:\\Windows\\*"|stats values(ComputerName) as "Computer Name" count(ImageLoaded) as ImageLoadedCount by ImageLoaded```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Command arguments used before and after the regsvr32.exe invocation may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the script or DLL being loaded. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of regsvr32.exe. Compare recent invocations of regsvr32.exe with prior history of known good arguments and loaded files to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity.

Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). 
- Analytic 1 is a more generic analytic that looks for suspicious usage of regsvr32.exe, specifically for cases where regsvr32.exe creates child processes that aren’t itself. It’s not likely that this will result in millions of hits, but it does occur during benign activity so some form of baselining would be necessary for this to be useful as an alerting analytic.
- Analytic 2 is around “Squiblydoo”, which is a specific usage of regsvr32.exe to load a COM scriptlet directly from the internet and execute it in a way that bypasses application whitelisting. It looks for regsvr32.exe process creation events that load scrobj.dll via the command-line (which executes the COM scriptlet).
- Analytic 3 This uses the same logic as above, but adds lightweight baselining by ignoring all results that also showed up in the previous 30 days (it runs over 1 day).
- Analytic 4 This looks for child processes that may be spawend by regsvr32, while attempting to eliminate some of the common false positives such as werfault (Windows Error Reporting).

Analytic 1 - Generic Regsvr32

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") regsvr32.exe | search ParentImage="*regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="*regsvr32.exe*"```

Analytic 2 - Squiblydoo

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") regsvr32.exe scrobj.dll | search Image="*regsvr32.exe"```

Analyt 3 - New Items since last month 

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") earliest=-d@d latest=now() regsvr32.exe | search ParentImage="*regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="*regsvr32.exe*" | search NOT [
search (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") earliest=-60d@d latest=-30d@d regsvr32.exe | search ParentImage="*regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="*regsvr32.exe*" | dedup CommandLine | fields CommandLine ]```

Analytic 4 - Spawning Child Processes 

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") (ParentImage="C:\\Windows\\System32\\regsvr32.exe" OR ParentImage="C:\\Windows\\SysWOW64\\regsvr32.exe") AND Image!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="C:\\Windows\\SysWOW64\\regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="C:\\WINDOWS\\System32\\regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="C:\\WINDOWS\\SysWOW64\\regsvr32.exe" AND Image!="C:\\Windows\\SysWOW64\\WerFault.exe" AND Image!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\wevtutil.exe" AND Image!="C:\\Windows\\System32\\WerFault.exe"|stats values(ComputerName) as "Computer Name" values(ParentCommandLine) as "Parent Command Line" count(Image) as ImageCount by Image```

