# Sharepoint (T1213.002)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage the SharePoint repository as a source to mine valuable information. SharePoint will often contain useful information for an adversary to learn about the structure and functionality of the internal network and systems. For example, the following is a list of example information that may hold potential value to an adversary and may also be found on SharePoint:

* Policies, procedures, and standards
* Physical / logical network diagrams
* System architecture diagrams
* Technical system documentation
* Testing / development credentials (i.e., Unsecured Credentials (T1552))
* Work / project schedules
* Source code snippets
* Links to network shares and other internal resources


## Parent Technique
- Data from Information Repositories (T1213)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Related Groups
- Akira (G1024)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Chimera (G0114)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Ke3chang (G0004)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection
The user access logging within Microsoft's SharePoint can be configured to report access to certain pages and documents. . As information repositories generally have a considerably large user base, detection of malicious use can be non-trivial. At minimum, access to information repositories performed by privileged users (for example, Active Directory Domain, Enterprise, or Schema Administrators) should be closely monitored and alerted upon, as these types of accounts should generally not be used to access information repositories. If the capability exists, it may be of value to monitor and alert on users that are retrieving and viewing a large number of documents and pages; this behavior may be indicative of programmatic means being used to retrieve all data within the repository. In environments with high-maturity, it may be possible to leverage User-Behavioral Analytics (UBA) platforms to detect and alert on user based anomalies. 



### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for newly constructed logon behavior across Microsoft's SharePoint which can be configured to report access to certain pages and documents.  As information repositories generally have a considerably large user base, detection of malicious use can be non-trivial.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious actor IPs, unusual user agents (e.g., malware, scripting interpreters like PowerShell, Python), anomalous login times

``` index="azure_ad_signin_logs" Resource="Office 365 SharePoint Online" AND (UserAgent="PowerShell" OR UserAgent="Mozilla")
| stats count by UserAgent, UserID, IPAddress, Location
| where IPAddress!="expected_ip" OR Location!="expected_location"```

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may leverage the SharePoint repository as a source to mine valuable information. Monitor access to Microsoft SharePoint repositories performed by privileged users (for example, Active Directory Domain, Enterprise, or Schema Administrators) should be closely monitored and alerted upon, as these types of accounts should generally not be used to access information repositories. If the capability exists, it may be of value to monitor and alert on users that are retrieving and viewing a large number of documents and pages; this behavior may be indicative of programmatic means being used to retrieve all data within the repository. In environments with high-maturity, it may be possible to leverage User-Behavioral Analytics (UBA) platforms to detect and alert on user based anomalies.

#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Metadata (DS0025): 
Monitor M365 Audit logs for FileAccessed operations against Sharepoint workloads. Scrutinize event metadata such as client IP address, ObjectId, UserId, User Agent, and Authentication type.

Analytic 1 - Unusual file access patterns by users, anomalous IP addresses, or suspicious User Agents

``` index="m365_audit_logs" Operation="FileAccessed"
| stats count by UserId, ClientIP, ObjectId, UserAgent, AuthenticationType
| where UserId!="expected_user" OR ClientIP!="expected_ip" OR UserAgent!="expected_user_agent" OR AuthenticationType!="expected_auth_type"```

