# SyncAppvPublishingServer (T1216.002)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs to proxy execution of malicious PowerShell (T1059.001) commands. SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs is a Visual Basic script associated with how Windows virtualizes applications (Microsoft Application Virtualization, or App-V). For example, Windows may render Win32 applications to users as virtual applications, allowing users to launch and interact with them as if they were installed locally.
    
The SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs script is legitimate, may be signed by Microsoft, and is commonly executed from `\System32` through the command line via `wscript.exe`.

Adversaries may abuse SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs to bypass PowerShell (T1059.001) execution restrictions and evade defensive counter measures by "living off the land." Proxying execution may function as a trusted/signed alternative to directly invoking `powershell.exe`.

For example,  PowerShell (T1059.001) commands may be invoked using:

`SyncAppvPublishingServer.vbs "n; {PowerShell}"`

## Parent Technique
- System Script Proxy Execution (T1216)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for scripts like Syncappvpublishingserver.vbs that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor script processes, such as `wscript.exe`, that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files. 

