# Remote Access Tools (T1219)

## Description
An adversary may use legitimate remote access tools to establish an interactive command and control channel within a network. Remote access tools create a session between two trusted hosts through a graphical interface, a command line interaction, a protocol tunnel via development or management software, or hardware-level access such as KVM (Keyboard, Video, Mouse) over IP solutions. Desktop support software (usually graphical interface) and remote management software (typically command line interface) allow a user to control a computer remotely as if they are a local user inheriting the user or software permissions. This software is commonly used for troubleshooting, software installation, and system management. Adversaries may similarly abuse response features included in EDR and other defensive tools that enable remote access.

Remote access tools may be installed and used post-compromise as an alternate communications channel for redundant access or to establish an interactive remote desktop session with the target system. It may also be used as a malware component to establish a reverse connection or back-connect to a service or adversary-controlled system.

Installation of many remote access tools may also include persistence (e.g., the software's installation routine creates a Windows Service (T1543.003)). Remote access modules/features may also exist as part of otherwise existing software (e.g., Google Chrome’s Remote Desktop).

## Sub-techniques
- IDE Tunneling (T1219.001)
- Remote Access Hardware (T1219.003)
- Remote Desktop Software (T1219.002)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- OilRig (G0049)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- GOLD SOUTHFIELD (G0115)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- DarkVishnya (G0105)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Carbanak (G0008)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Akira (G1024)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)
- Limit Hardware Installation (M1034)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Monitor for applications and processes related to remote admin tools. Correlate activity with other suspicious behavior that may reduce false positives if these tools are used by legitimate users and administrators.

Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect application layer protocols that do not follow the expected protocol for the port that is being used.

Domain Fronting (T1090.004) may be used in conjunction to avoid defenses. Adversaries will likely need to deploy and/or install these remote tools to compromised systems. It may be possible to detect or prevent the installation of these tools with host-based solutions.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for applications and processes related to remote admin software. Correlate activity with other suspicious behavior that may reduce false positives if this type of software is used by legitimate users and administrators. Domain Fronting (T1090.004) may be used in conjunction to avoid defenses. Adversaries will likely need to deploy and/or install these remote software to compromised systems. It may be possible to detect or prevent the installation of this type of software with host-based solutions.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.


#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g. extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Drive: Drive Creation (DS0016): 
Monitor for newly constructed drives or other related events associated with computer hardware and other accessories (especially new or unknown) being connected to systems. Endpoint sensors may be able to detect the addition of hardware via USB and other external device communication ports.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. 

