# Regsvcs/Regasm (T1218.009)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Regsvcs and Regasm to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility. Regsvcs and Regasm are Windows command-line utilities that are used to register .NET Component Object Model (T1559.001) (COM) assemblies. Both are binaries that may be digitally signed by Microsoft.  

Both utilities may be used to bypass application control through use of attributes within the binary to specify code that should be run before registration or unregistration: ```[ComRegisterFunction]``` or ```[ComUnregisterFunction]``` respectively. The code with the registration and unregistration attributes will be executed even if the process is run under insufficient privileges and fails to execute. 

## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of Regsvcs.exe and Regasm.exe. Compare recent invocations of Regsvcs.exe and Regasm.exe with prior history of known good arguments and executed binaries to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. Command arguments used before and after Regsvcs.exe or Regasm.exe invocation may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the binary being executed.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Command arguments used before and after Regsvcs.exe or Regasm.exe invocation may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the binary being executed.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of Regsvcs.exe and Regasm.exe. Compare recent invocations of Regsvcs.exe and Regasm.exe with prior history of known good arguments and executed binaries to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity.

