# Electron Applications (T1218.015)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse components of the Electron framework to execute malicious code. The Electron framework hosts many common applications such as Signal, Slack, and Microsoft Teams. Originally developed by GitHub, Electron is a cross-platform desktop application development framework that employs web technologies like JavaScript, HTML, and CSS. The Chromium engine is used to display web content and Node.js runs the backend code.

Due to the functional mechanics of Electron (such as allowing apps to run arbitrary commands), adversaries may also be able to perform malicious functions in the background potentially disguised as legitimate tools within the framework. For example, the abuse of `teams.exe` and `chrome.exe` may allow adversaries to execute malicious commands as child processes of the legitimate application (e.g., `chrome.exe --disable-gpu-sandbox --gpu-launcher="C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe /c calc.exe`).

Adversaries may also execute malicious content by planting malicious JavaScript (T1059.007) within Electron applications.

## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Exploit Protection (M1050)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Electron apps to execute malicious content. For example, analyze commands invoking `teams.exe` or `chrome.exe` to execute malicious or abnormal content.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes and command-line parameters for binaries associated with Electron apps that may be used to proxy execution of malicious content. Compare recent invocations of these binaries with prior history of known good arguments to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity.

Correlate activity with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives that may be due to normal benign use by users and administrators.

