# System Script Proxy Execution (T1216)

## Description
Adversaries may use trusted scripts, often signed with certificates, to proxy the execution of malicious files. Several Microsoft signed scripts that have been downloaded from Microsoft or are default on Windows installations can be used to proxy execution of other files. This behavior may be abused by adversaries to execute malicious files that could bypass application control and signature validation on systems.

## Sub-techniques
- PubPrn (T1216.001)
- SyncAppvPublishingServer (T1216.002)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Monitor script processes, such as `cscript`, and command-line parameters for scripts like PubPrn.vbs that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for scripts like PubPrn.vbs that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor script processes, such as `cscript that may be used to proxy execution of malicious files.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

