# Customer Relationship Management Software (T1213.004)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage Customer Relationship Management (CRM) software to mine valuable information. CRM software is used to assist organizations in tracking and managing customer interactions, as well as storing customer data.

Once adversaries gain access to a victim organization, they may mine CRM software for customer data. This may include personally identifiable information (PII) such as full names, emails, phone numbers, and addresses, as well as additional details such as purchase histories and IT support interactions. By collecting this data, an adversary may be able to send personalized Phishing (T1566) emails, engage in SIM swapping, or otherwise target the organization’s customers in ways that enable financial gain or the compromise of additional organizations.

CRM software may be hosted on-premises or in the cloud. Information stored in these solutions may vary based on the specific instance or environment. Examples of CRM software include Microsoft Dynamics 365, Salesforce, Zoho, Zendesk, and HubSpot.

## Parent Technique
- Data from Information Repositories (T1213)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- User Training (M1017)
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for newly constructed logon behavior across the CRM software which can be configured to report access to certain information. As information repositories generally have a considerably large user base, detection of malicious use can be non-trivial. 

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may leverage the CRM database as a source to mine valuable information. Monitor access to the CRM database, especially performed by privileged users as these types of accounts should generally not be used to access information repositories. If the capability exists, it may be of value to monitor and alert on users that are retrieving and viewing a large number of records; this behavior may be indicative of programmatic means being used to retrieve all data within the repository. In environments with high-maturity, it may be possible to leverage User-Behavioral Analytics (UBA) platforms to detect and alert on user based anomalies. 

