# Control Panel (T1218.002)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse control.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. The Windows Control Panel process binary (control.exe) handles execution of Control Panel items, which are utilities that allow users to view and adjust computer settings.

Control Panel items are registered executable (.exe) or Control Panel (.cpl) files, the latter are actually renamed dynamic-link library (.dll) files that export a ```CPlApplet``` function. For ease of use, Control Panel items typically include graphical menus available to users after being registered and loaded into the Control Panel. Control Panel items can be executed directly from the command line, programmatically via an application programming interface (API) call, or by simply double-clicking the file. 

Malicious Control Panel items can be delivered via Phishing (T1566) campaigns or executed as part of multi-stage malware. Control Panel items, specifically CPL files, may also bypass application and/or file extension allow lists.

Adversaries may also rename malicious DLL files (.dll) with Control Panel file extensions (.cpl) and register them to ```HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Control Panel\Cpls```. Even when these registered DLLs do not comply with the CPL file specification and do not export ```CPlApplet``` functions, they are loaded and executed through its ```DllEntryPoint``` when Control Panel is executed. CPL files not exporting ```CPlApplet``` are not directly executable.

## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Monitor and analyze activity related to items associated with CPL files, such as the control.exe and the ```Control_RunDLL``` and ```ControlRunDLLAsUser``` API functions in shell32.dll. When executed from the command line or clicked, control.exe will execute the CPL file (ex: ```control.exe file.cpl```) before Rundll32 (T1218.011) is used to call the CPL's API functions (ex: ```rundll32.exe shell32.dll,Control_RunDLL file.cpl```). CPL files can be executed directly via the CPL API function with just the latter Rundll32 (T1218.011) command, which may bypass detections and/or execution filters for control.exe.

Inventory Control Panel items to locate unregistered and potentially malicious files present on systems:

* Executable format registered Control Panel items will have a globally unique identifier (GUID) and registration Registry entries in ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ControlPanel\NameSpace``` and ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\CLSID\{GUID}```. These entries may contain information about the Control Panel item such as its display name, path to the local file, and the command executed when opened in the Control Panel. 
* CPL format registered Control Panel items stored in the System32 directory are automatically shown in the Control Panel. Other Control Panel items will have registration entries in the ```CPLs``` and ```Extended Properties``` Registry keys of ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE or HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Control Panel```. These entries may include information such as a GUID, path to the local file, and a canonical name used to launch the file programmatically (``` WinExec("c:\windows\system32\control.exe {Canonical_Name}", SW_NORMAL);```) or from a command line (```control.exe /name {Canonical_Name}```).
* Some Control Panel items are extensible via Shell extensions registered in ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Controls Folder\{name}\Shellex\PropertySheetHandlers``` where {name} is the predefined name of the system item.

Analyze new Control Panel items as well as those present on disk for malicious content. Both executable and CPL formats are compliant Portable Executable (PE) images and can be examined using traditional tools and methods, pending anti-reverse-engineering techniques.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may forge web cookies that can be used to gain access to web applications or Internet services.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for DLL/PE file events, such as the ```Control_RunDLL``` and ```ControlRunDLLAsUser``` API functions in shell32.dll.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Inventory Control Panel items to locate unregistered and potentially malicious files present on systems:
* Executable format registered Control Panel items will have a globally unique identifier (GUID) and registration Registry entries in ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\ControlPanel\NameSpace``` and ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\CLSID\{GUID}```. These entries may contain information about the Control Panel item such as its display name, path to the local file, and the command executed when opened in the Control Panel. 
* CPL format registered Control Panel items stored in the System32 directory are automatically shown in the Control Panel. Other Control Panel items will have registration entries in the ```CPLs``` and ```Extended Properties``` Registry keys of ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE or HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Control Panel```. These entries may include information such as a GUID, path to the local file, and a canonical name used to launch the file programmatically (``` WinExec("c:\windows\system32\control.exe {Canonical_Name}", SW_NORMAL);```) or from a command line (```control.exe /name {Canonical_Name}```).
* Some Control Panel items are extensible via Shell extensions registered in ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Controls Folder\{name}\Shellex\PropertySheetHandlers``` where {name} is the predefined name of the system item.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
When executed from the command line or clicked, control.exe will execute the CPL file (ex: ```control.exe file.cpl```) before Rundll32 (T1218.011) is used to call the CPL's API functions (ex: ```rundll32.exe shell32.dll,Control_RunDLL file.cpl```). CPL files can be executed directly via the CPL API function with just the latter Rundll32 (T1218.011) command, which may bypass detections and/or execution filters for control.exe.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may forge web cookies that can be used to gain access to web applications or Internet services.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor and analyze activity related to items associated with CPL files, such as the control.exe. Analyze new Control Panel items as well as those present on disk for malicious content. Both executable and CPL formats are compliant Portable Executable (PE) images and can be examined using traditional tools and methods, pending anti-reverse-engineering techniques.

