# Odbcconf (T1218.008)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse odbcconf.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. Odbcconf.exe is a Windows utility that allows you to configure Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) drivers and data source names. The Odbcconf.exe binary may be digitally signed by Microsoft.

Adversaries may abuse odbcconf.exe to bypass application control solutions that do not account for its potential abuse. Similar to Regsvr32 (T1218.010), odbcconf.exe has a ```REGSVR``` flag that can be misused to execute DLLs (ex: ```odbcconf.exe /S /A &lbrace;REGSVR "C:\Users\Public\file.dll"&rbrace;```).  


## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Cobalt Group (G0080)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of odbcconf.exe. Compare recent invocations of odbcconf.exe with prior history of known good arguments and loaded DLLs to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity. Command arguments used before and after the invocation of odbcconf.exe may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the DLL being loaded.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Command arguments used before and after the invocation of odbcconf.exe may also be useful in determining the origin and purpose of the DLL being loaded.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and arguments of odbcconf.exe. Compare recent invocations of odbcconf.exe with prior history of known good arguments and loaded DLLs to determine anomalous and potentially adversarial activity.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process.

