# MMC (T1218.014)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse mmc.exe to proxy execution of malicious .msc files. Microsoft Management Console (MMC) is a binary that may be signed by Microsoft and is used in several ways in either its GUI or in a command prompt. MMC can be used to create, open, and save custom consoles that contain administrative tools created by Microsoft, called snap-ins. These snap-ins may be used to manage Windows systems locally or remotely. MMC can also be used to open Microsoft created .msc files to manage system configuration.

For example, ```mmc C:\Users\foo\admintools.msc /a``` will open a custom, saved console msc file in author mode. Another common example is ```mmc gpedit.msc```, which will open the Group Policy Editor application window. 

Adversaries may use MMC commands to perform malicious tasks. For example, ```mmc wbadmin.msc delete catalog -quiet``` deletes the backup catalog on the system (i.e. Inhibit System Recovery (T1490)) without prompts to the user (Note: ```wbadmin.msc``` may only be present by default on Windows Server operating systems).

Adversaries may also abuse MMC to execute malicious .msc files. For example, adversaries may first create a malicious registry Class Identifier (CLSID) subkey, which uniquely identifies a Component Object Model (T1559.001) class object. Then, adversaries may create custom consoles with the “Link to Web Address” snap-in that is linked to the malicious CLSID subkey. Once the .msc file is saved, adversaries may invoke the malicious CLSID payload with the following command: ```mmc.exe -Embedding C:\path\to\test.msc```.

## Parent Technique
- System Binary Proxy Execution (T1218)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line parameters for suspicious or malicious use of MMC. Since MMC is a signed Windows binary, verify use of MMC is legitimate and not malicious. 

Monitor for creation and use of .msc files. MMC may legitimately be used to call Microsoft-created .msc files, such as ```services.msc``` or ```eventvwr.msc```. Invoking non-Microsoft .msc files may be an indicator of malicious activity. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may gather information about the victim's DNS that can be used during targeting.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for creation and use of .msc files. MMC may legitimately be used to call Microsoft-created .msc files, such as ```services.msc``` or ```eventvwr.msc```. Invoking non-Microsoft .msc files may be an indicator of malicious activity.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes for suspicious or malicious use of MMC. Since MMC is a signed Windows binary, verify use of MMC is legitimate and not malicious.

