# Windows File and Directory Permissions Modification (T1222.001)

## Description
Adversaries may modify file or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists (ACLs) and access protected files. File and directory permissions are commonly managed by ACLs configured by the file or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions. File and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which users or groups can perform which actions (read, write, execute, etc.).

Windows implements file and directory ACLs as Discretionary Access Control Lists (DACLs). Similar to a standard ACL, DACLs identifies the accounts that are allowed or denied access to a securable object. When an attempt is made to access a securable object, the system checks the access control entries in the DACL in order. If a matching entry is found, access to the object is granted. Otherwise, access is denied.

Adversaries can interact with the DACLs using built-in Windows commands, such as `icacls`, `cacls`, `takeown`, and `attrib`, which can grant adversaries higher permissions on specific files and folders. Further, PowerShell (T1059.001) provides cmdlets that can be used to retrieve or modify file and directory DACLs. Specific file and directory modifications may be a required step for many techniques, such as establishing Persistence via Accessibility Features (T1546.008), Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (T1037), or tainting/hijacking other instrumental binary/configuration files via Hijack Execution Flow (T1574).

## Parent Technique
- File and Directory Permissions Modification (T1222)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor and investigate attempts to modify DACLs and file/directory ownership. Many of the commands used to modify DACLs and file/directory ownership are built-in system utilities and may generate a high false positive alert rate, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

Consider enabling file/directory permission change auditing on folders containing key binary/configuration files. For example, Windows Security Log events (Event ID 4670) are created when DACLs are modified.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for executed commands and arguments for PowerShell cmdlets that can be used to retrieve or modify file and directory DACLs.

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for changes made to DACLs and file/directory ownership. Many of the commands used to modify DACLs and file/directory ownership are built-in system utilities and may generate a high false positive alert rate, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that can interact with the DACLs using built-in Windows commands, such as icacls, cacls, takeown, and attrib, which can grant adversaries higher permissions on specific files and folders.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Consider enabling file/directory permission change auditing on folders containing key binary/configuration files. For example, Windows Security Log events (Event ID 4670) are created when DACLs are modified.

Adversaries sometimes modify object access rights at the operating system level. There are varying motivations behind this action - they may not want some files/objects to be changed on systems for persistence reasons and therefore provide admin only rights; also, they may want files to be accessible with lower levels of permissions.

Windows environment logs can be noisy, so we take the following into consideration:

- We need to exclude events generated by the local system (subject security ID “NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM”) and focus on actual user events.
- When a permission modification is made for a folder, a new event log is generated for each subfolder and file under that folder. It is advised to group logs based on handle ID or user ID.
- The Windows security log (event ID 4670) also includes information about the process that modifies the file permissions. It is advised to focus on uncommon process names, and it is also uncommon for real-users to perform this task without a GUI.
- Pseudocode Event ID is for Windows Security Log (Event ID 4670 - Permissions on an object were changed). 
- Windows Event ID 4719 (An Attempt Was Made to Access An Object) can also be used to alert on changes to Active Directory audit policy for a system.

Analytic 1 - Access Permission Modification for Windows

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode IN (4670, 4719)) Object_Type="File" Security_ID!="NT AUTHORITY\\SYSTEM" ```

