# Template Injection (T1221)

## Description
Adversaries may create or modify references in user document templates to conceal malicious code or force authentication attempts. For example, Microsoft’s Office Open XML (OOXML) specification defines an XML-based format for Office documents (.docx, xlsx, .pptx) to replace older binary formats (.doc, .xls, .ppt). OOXML files are packed together ZIP archives compromised of various XML files, referred to as parts, containing properties that collectively define how a document is rendered.

Properties within parts may reference shared public resources accessed via online URLs. For example, template properties may reference a file, serving as a pre-formatted document blueprint, that is fetched when the document is loaded.

Adversaries may abuse these templates to initially conceal malicious code to be executed via user documents. Template references injected into a document may enable malicious payloads to be fetched and executed when the document is loaded. These documents can be delivered via other techniques such as Phishing (T1566) and/or Taint Shared Content (T1080) and may evade static detections since no typical indicators (VBA macro, script, etc.) are present until after the malicious payload is fetched. Examples have been seen in the wild where template injection was used to load malicious code containing an exploit.

Adversaries may also modify the ```*\template``` control word within an .rtf file to similarly conceal then download malicious code. This legitimate control word value is intended to be a file destination of a template file resource that is retrieved and loaded when an .rtf file is opened. However, adversaries may alter the bytes of an existing .rtf file to insert a template control word field to include a URL resource of a malicious payload.

This technique may also enable Forced Authentication (T1187) by injecting a SMB/HTTPS (or other credential prompting) URL and triggering an authentication attempt.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Confucius (G0142)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Inception (G0100)
- DarkHydrus (G0079)

## Mitigations
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- User Training (M1017)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Analyze process behavior to determine if user document applications (such as Office) are performing actions, such as opening network connections, reading files, spawning abnormal child processes (ex: PowerShell (T1059.001)), or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior.

Monitor .rtf files for strings indicating the ```&#42;\template``` control word has been modified to retrieve a URL resource, such as ```&#42;\template http``` or ```&#42;\template \u-```.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Analyze process behavior to determine if an Office application is performing actions, such as opening network connections, reading files, spawning abnormal child processes (ex: PowerShell (T1059.001)), or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

