# Data Encrypted for Impact (T1486)

## Description
Adversaries may encrypt data on target systems or on large numbers of systems in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources. They can attempt to render stored data inaccessible by encrypting files or data on local and remote drives and withholding access to a decryption key. This may be done in order to extract monetary compensation from a victim in exchange for decryption or a decryption key (ransomware) or to render data permanently inaccessible in cases where the key is not saved or transmitted.

In the case of ransomware, it is typical that common user files like Office documents, PDFs, images, videos, audio, text, and source code files will be encrypted (and often renamed and/or tagged with specific file markers). Adversaries may need to first employ other behaviors, such as File and Directory Permissions Modification (T1222) or System Shutdown/Reboot (T1529), in order to unlock and/or gain access to manipulate these files. In some cases, adversaries may encrypt critical system files, disk partitions, and the MBR. Adversaries may also encrypt virtual machines hosted on ESXi or other hypervisors. 

To maximize impact on the target organization, malware designed for encrypting data may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging other attack techniques like Valid Accounts (T1078), OS Credential Dumping (T1003), and SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002). Encryption malware may also leverage Internal Defacement (T1491.001), such as changing victim wallpapers or ESXi server login messages, or otherwise intimidate victims by sending ransom notes or other messages to connected printers (known as "print bombing").

In cloud environments, storage objects within compromised accounts may also be encrypted. For example, in AWS environments, adversaries may leverage services such as AWS’s Server-Side Encryption with Customer Provided Keys (SSE-C) to encrypt data.

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Akira (G1024)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- APT41 (G0096)
- TA505 (G0092)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)

## Mitigations
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command line parameters of binaries involved in data destruction activity, such as vssadmin, wbadmin, and bcdedit. Monitor for the creation of suspicious files as well as unusual file modification activity. In particular, look for large quantities of file modifications in user directories.

In some cases, monitoring for unusual kernel driver installation activity can aid in detection.

In cloud environments, monitor for events that indicate storage objects have been anomalously replaced by copies.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files in user directories.

#### Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage Modification (DS0010): 
Monitor for changes made in cloud environments for events that indicate storage objects have been anomalously modified.

#### Network Share: Network Share Access (DS0033): 
Monitor for unexpected network shares being accessed on target systems or on large numbers of systems.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files in user directories.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions involved in data destruction activity, such as vssadmin, wbadmin, and bcdedit.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed  processes and/or command-lines involved in data destruction activity, such as vssadmin, wbadmin, and bcdedit.

