# Mutual Exclusion (T1480.002)

## Description
Adversaries may constrain execution or actions based on the presence of a mutex associated with malware. A mutex is a locking mechanism used to synchronize access to a resource. Only one thread or process can acquire a mutex at a given time.

While local mutexes only exist within a given process, allowing multiple threads to synchronize access to a resource, system mutexes can be used to synchronize the activities of multiple processes. By creating a unique system mutex associated with a particular malware, adversaries can verify whether or not a system has already been compromised.

In Linux environments, malware may instead attempt to acquire a lock on a mutex file. If the malware is able to acquire the lock, it continues to execute; if it fails, it exits to avoid creating a second instance of itself.

Mutex names may be hard-coded or dynamically generated using a predictable algorithm.

## Parent Technique
- Execution Guardrails (T1480)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)

## Mitigations
- Do Not Mitigate (M1055)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for suspicious API calls associated with system mutex creation, such as `CreateMutex/CreateMutexA` on Windows systems. For example, it is rare for legitimate programs to create random mutex names. Additionally, monitor for suspicious syscalls associated with lock files, such as `flock` on Linux.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for the suspicious creation of lock files – for example, in shared memory directories such as `/var/run`.

