# Data Destruction (T1485)

## Description
Adversaries may destroy data and files on specific systems or in large numbers on a network to interrupt availability to systems, services, and network resources. Data destruction is likely to render stored data irrecoverable by forensic techniques through overwriting files or data on local and remote drives. Common operating system file deletion commands such as ```del``` and ```rm``` often only remove pointers to files without wiping the contents of the files themselves, making the files recoverable by proper forensic methodology. This behavior is distinct from Disk Content Wipe (T1561.001) and Disk Structure Wipe (T1561.002) because individual files are destroyed rather than sections of a storage disk or the disk's logical structure.

Adversaries may attempt to overwrite files and directories with randomly generated data to make it irrecoverable. In some cases politically oriented image files have been used to overwrite data.

To maximize impact on the target organization in operations where network-wide availability interruption is the goal, malware designed for destroying data may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging additional techniques like Valid Accounts (T1078), OS Credential Dumping (T1003), and SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002)..

In cloud environments, adversaries may leverage access to delete cloud storage objects, machine images, database instances, and other infrastructure crucial to operations to damage an organization or their customers. Similarly, they may delete virtual machines from on-prem virtualized environments.

## Sub-techniques
- Lifecycle-Triggered Deletion (T1485.001)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Data Backup (M1053)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command-line parameters of binaries that could be involved in data destruction activity, such as SDelete. Monitor for the creation of suspicious files as well as high unusual file modification activity. In particular, look for large quantities of file modifications in user directories and under ```C:\Windows\System32\```.

In cloud environments, the occurrence of anomalous high-volume deletion events, such as the ```DeleteDBCluster``` and ```DeleteGlobalCluster``` events in AWS, or a high quantity of data deletion events, such as ```DeleteBucket```, within a short period of time may indicate suspicious activity.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Snapshot: Snapshot Deletion (DS0020): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a snapshot (ex: AWS `DeleteSnapshot`, `DeleteDBSnapshot`)

#### Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage Modification (DS0010): 
Monitor for unexpected use of lifecycle policies. Where lifecycle policies are already in use, monitor for changes to cloud storage configurations and policies, such as buckets configured in the policy or unusually short retention periods. In AWS environments, monitor for `PutBucketLifecycle` events with a `requestParameters.LifecycleConfiguration.Rule.Expiration.Days` attribute below expected values.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes of binaries that could be involved in data destruction activity, such as SDelete.

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion to a file (ex: Sysmon EID 23) 

#### Image: Image Deletion (DS0007): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a virtual machine image (ex: Azure Compute Service Images `DELETE`)

#### Instance: Instance Deletion (DS0030): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a virtual machine or database instance (ex: `instance.delete` within GCP Audit Logs, `DeleteDBInstance` in AWS)

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to a large quantity of files for unexpected modifications in user directories and under C:\Windows\System32\.

#### Volume: Volume Deletion (DS0034): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a cloud volume (ex: AWS `DeleteVolume`)

#### Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage Deletion (DS0010): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a cloud storage infrastructure, such as the ```DeleteDBCluster``` and ```DeleteGlobalCluster``` events in AWS, or a high quantity of data deletion events, such as ```DeleteBucket```. Many of these events within a short period of time may indicate malicious activity.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for binaries that could be involved in data destruction activity, such as SDelete.

