# Domain Trust Discovery (T1482)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to gather information on domain trust relationships that may be used to identify lateral movement opportunities in Windows multi-domain/forest environments. Domain trusts provide a mechanism for a domain to allow access to resources based on the authentication procedures of another domain. Domain trusts allow the users of the trusted domain to access resources in the trusting domain. The information discovered may help the adversary conduct SID-History Injection (T1134.005), Pass the Ticket (T1550.003), and Kerberoasting (T1558.003). Domain trusts can be enumerated using the `DSEnumerateDomainTrusts()` Win32 API call, .NET methods, and LDAP. The Windows utility Nltest is known to be used by adversaries to enumerate domain trusts.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Akira (G1024)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- FIN8 (G0061)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information, such as `nltest /domain_trusts`. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Look for the `DSEnumerateDomainTrusts()` Win32 API call to spot activity associated with Domain Trust Discovery (T1482). Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as PowerShell (T1059.001). The .NET method `GetAllTrustRelationships()` can be an indicator of Domain Trust Discovery (T1482).


### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to gather information on domain trust relationships that may be used to identify lateral movement opportunities in Windows multi-domain/forest environments.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information, such as nltest /domain_trusts. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to LDAP and MSRPC that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure).

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with gathering information on domain trust relationships that may be used to identify lateral movement like DSEnumerateDomainTrusts() Win32 API call to spot activity associated with Domain Trust Discovery. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as PowerShell. The .NET method GetAllTrustRelationships() can be an indicator of Domain Trust Discovery.

