# Domain or Tenant Policy Modification (T1484)

## Description
Adversaries may modify the configuration settings of a domain or identity tenant to evade defenses and/or escalate privileges in centrally managed environments. Such services provide a centralized means of managing identity resources such as devices and accounts, and often include configuration settings that may apply between domains or tenants such as trust relationships, identity syncing, or identity federation.

Modifications to domain or tenant settings may include altering domain Group Policy Objects (GPOs) in Microsoft Active Directory (AD) or changing trust settings for domains, including federation trusts relationships between domains or tenants.

With sufficient permissions, adversaries can modify domain or tenant policy settings. Since configuration settings for these services apply to a large number of identity resources, there are a great number of potential attacks malicious outcomes that can stem from this abuse. Examples of such abuse include:  

* modifying GPOs to push a malicious Scheduled Task (T1053.005) to computers throughout the domain environment
* modifying domain trusts to include an adversary-controlled domain, allowing adversaries to  forge access tokens that will subsequently be accepted by victim domain resources
* changing configuration settings within the AD environment to implement a Rogue Domain Controller (T1207).
* adding new, adversary-controlled federated identity providers to identity tenants, allowing adversaries to authenticate as any user managed by the victim tenant 

Adversaries may temporarily modify domain or tenant policy, carry out a malicious action(s), and then revert the change to remove suspicious indicators.

## Sub-techniques
- Trust Modification (T1484.002)
- Group Policy Modification (T1484.001)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
It may be possible to detect domain policy modifications using Windows event logs. Group policy modifications, for example, may be logged under a variety of Windows event IDs for modifying, creating, undeleting, moving, and deleting directory service objects (Event ID 5136, 5137, 5138, 5139, 5141 respectively). Monitor for modifications to domain trust settings, such as when a user or application modifies the federation settings on the domain or updates domain authentication from Managed to Federated via ActionTypes ```Set federation settings on domain``` and ```Set domain authentication```. This may also include monitoring for Event ID 307 which can be correlated to relevant Event ID 510 with the same Instance ID for change details.

Consider monitoring for commands/cmdlets and command-line arguments that may be leveraged to modify domain policy settings. Some domain policy modifications, such as changes to federation settings, are likely to be rare.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Deletion (DS0026): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of an active directory object, such as Windows EID 5141.

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Creation (DS0026): 
Monitor for newly constructed active directory objects, such as Windows EID 5137.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for modifications to domain trust settings, such as when a user or application modifies the federation settings on the domain or updates domain authentication from Managed to Federated via ActionTypes ```Set federation settings on domain``` and ```Set domain authentication```.

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for changes made to AD settings for unexpected modifications to user accounts, such as deletions or potentially malicious changes to user attributes (credentials, status, etc.).

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor changes to cloud-based directory services and identity tenants, especially regarding the addition of new federated identity providers. In Okta environments, the event `system.idp.lifecycle.create` will trigger on the creation of an identity provider, while sign-ins from a third-party identity provider will create the event `user.authentication.auth_via_IDP.`

