# Service Stop (T1489)

## Description
Adversaries may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to legitimate users. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop response to an incident or aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the environment. 

Adversaries may accomplish this by disabling individual services of high importance to an organization, such as ```MSExchangeIS```, which will make Exchange content inaccessible. In some cases, adversaries may stop or disable many or all services to render systems unusable. Services or processes may not allow for modification of their data stores while running. Adversaries may stop services or processes in order to conduct Data Destruction (T1485) or Data Encrypted for Impact (T1486) on the data stores of services like Exchange and SQL Server, or on virtual machines hosted on ESXi infrastructure.

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)

## Mitigations
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Out-of-Band Communications Channel (M1060)
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments to see if critical processes are terminated or stop running.

Monitor for edits for modifications to services and startup programs that correspond to services of high importance. Look for changes to services that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Windows service information is stored in the Registry at ```HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services```. Systemd service unit files are stored within the /etc/systemd/system, /usr/lib/systemd/system/, and /home/.config/systemd/user/ directories, as well as associated symbolic links.

Alterations to the service binary path or the service startup type changed to disabled may be suspicious.

Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to perform these functions outside of typical system utilities. For example, ```ChangeServiceConfigW``` may be used by an adversary to prevent services from starting.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to legitimate users.

#### Process: Process Termination (DS0009): 
Monitor processes and command-line arguments to see if critical processes are terminated or stop running. On ESXi servers, monitor for suspicious termination of VM processes, such as many VMs shutting down at once.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys and/or values that may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to legitimate users.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to legitimate users. On ESXi servers, monitor for suspicious commands that terminate VMs, such as `esxcli vm process kill`,  `pkill –9 vmx-*`, or `vim-cmd vmsvc/power.off `.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to legitimate users.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to perform these functions outside of typical system utilities. For example, ```ChangeServiceConfigW``` may be used by an adversary to prevent services from starting.

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Alterations to the service binary path or the service startup type changed to disabled may be suspicious.

