# Lifecycle-Triggered Deletion (T1485.001)

## Description
Adversaries may modify the lifecycle policies of a cloud storage bucket to destroy all objects stored within.  

Cloud storage buckets often allow users to set lifecycle policies to automate the migration, archival, or deletion of objects after a set period of time. If a threat actor has sufficient permissions to modify these policies, they may be able to delete all objects at once. 

For example, in AWS environments, an adversary with the `PutLifecycleConfiguration` permission may use the `PutBucketLifecycle` API call to apply a lifecycle policy to an S3 bucket that deletes all objects in the bucket after one day. In addition to destroying data for purposes of extortion and Financial Theft (T1657), adversaries may also perform this action on buckets storing cloud logs for Indicator Removal (T1070).

## Parent Technique
- Data Destruction (T1485)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage Modification (DS0010): 
Monitor for unexpected use of lifecycle policies. Where lifecycle policies are already in use, monitor for changes to cloud storage configurations and policies, such as buckets configured in the policy or unusually short retention periods. In AWS environments, monitor for `PutBucketLifecycle` events with a `requestParameters.LifecycleConfiguration.Rule.Expiration.Days` attribute below expected values.

