# External Defacement (T1491.002)

## Description
An adversary may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. External Defacement (T1491.002) may ultimately cause users to distrust the systems and to question/discredit the system’s integrity. Externally-facing websites are a common victim of defacement; often targeted by adversary and hacktivist groups in order to push a political message or spread propaganda. External Defacement (T1491.002) may be used as a catalyst to trigger events, or as a response to actions taken by an organization or government. Similarly, website defacement may also be used as setup, or a precursor, for future attacks such as Drive-by Compromise (T1189).

## Parent Technique
- Defacement (T1491)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)

## Mitigations
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection
Monitor external websites for unplanned content changes. Monitor application logs for abnormal behavior that may indicate attempted or successful exploitation. Use deep packet inspection to look for artifacts of common exploit traffic, such as SQL injection. Web Application Firewalls may detect improper inputs attempting exploitation.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. 

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor external websites for unplanned content changes.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to deliver messaging, intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

