# Compute Hijacking (T1496.001)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage the compute resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. 

One common purpose for Compute Hijacking (T1496.001) is to validate transactions of cryptocurrency networks and earn virtual currency. Adversaries may consume enough system resources to negatively impact and/or cause affected machines to become unresponsive. Servers and cloud-based systems are common targets because of the high potential for available resources, but user endpoint systems may also be compromised and used for Compute Hijacking (T1496.001) and cryptocurrency mining. Containerized environments may also be targeted due to the ease of deployment via exposed APIs and the potential for scaling mining activities by deploying or compromising multiple containers within an environment or cluster.

Additionally, some cryptocurrency mining malware identify then kill off processes for competing malware to ensure it’s not competing for resources.

## Parent Technique
- Resource Hijacking (T1496)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- Rocke (G0106)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT41 (G0096)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may indicate common cryptomining functionality.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. Look for connections to/from strange ports, as well as reputation of IPs and URLs related to cryptocurrency hosts. In AWS environments, configure GuardDuty to alert when EC2 instances query IP addresses associated with known cryptocurrency activity.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic content for resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Sensor Health: Host Status (DS0013): 
Consider monitoring process resource usage to determine anomalous activity associated with malicious hijacking of computer resources such as CPU, memory, and graphics processing resources.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for common cryptomining software process names that may indicate compromise and resource usage.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for common cryptomining files on local systems that may indicate compromise and resource usage.

