# Resource Hijacking (T1496)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage the resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. 

Resource hijacking may take a number of different forms. For example, adversaries may:

* Leverage compute resources in order to mine cryptocurrency
* Sell network bandwidth to proxy networks
* Generate SMS traffic for profit
* Abuse cloud-based messaging services to send large quantities of spam messages

In some cases, adversaries may leverage multiple types of Resource Hijacking at once.

## Sub-techniques
- SMS Pumping (T1496.003)
- Bandwidth Hijacking (T1496.002)
- Cloud Service Hijacking (T1496.004)
- Compute Hijacking (T1496.001)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Detection
Consider monitoring process resource usage to determine anomalous activity associated with malicious hijacking of computer resources such as CPU, memory, and graphics processing resources. Monitor for suspicious use of network resources associated with cryptocurrency mining software. Monitor for common cryptomining software process names and files on local systems that may indicate compromise and resource usage.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Modification (DS0025): 
Monitor for changes to SaaS services, especially when quotas are raised or when new services are enabled.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor logs for software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications for signs of abuse. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic content for resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability.

Note: Destination Host Name is not a comprehensive list of potential cryptocurrency URLs. This analytic has a hardcoded domain name which may change. 


#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for common cryptomining or proxyware files on local systems that may indicate compromise and resource usage.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts, look for connections to/from strange ports, as well as reputation of IPs and URLs related cryptocurrency hosts. 

#### Sensor Health: Host Status (DS0013): 
Consider monitoring process resource usage to determine anomalous activity associated with malicious hijacking of computer resources such as CPU, memory, and graphics processing resources.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for common cryptomining or proxyware software process names that may indicate compromise and resource usage.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may indicate common cryptomining or proxyware functionality.

