# Inhibit System Recovery (T1490)

## Description
Adversaries may delete or remove built-in data and turn off services designed to aid in the recovery of a corrupted system to prevent recovery. This may deny access to available backups and recovery options.

Operating systems may contain features that can help fix corrupted systems, such as a backup catalog, volume shadow copies, and automatic repair features. Adversaries may disable or delete system recovery features to augment the effects of Data Destruction (T1485) and Data Encrypted for Impact (T1486). Furthermore, adversaries may disable recovery notifications, then corrupt backups.

A number of native Windows utilities have been used by adversaries to disable or delete system recovery features:

* ```vssadmin.exe``` can be used to delete all volume shadow copies on a system - ```vssadmin.exe delete shadows /all /quiet```
* Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) can be used to delete volume shadow copies - ```wmic shadowcopy delete```
* ```wbadmin.exe``` can be used to delete the Windows Backup Catalog - ```wbadmin.exe delete catalog -quiet```
* ```bcdedit.exe``` can be used to disable automatic Windows recovery features by modifying boot configuration data - ```bcdedit.exe /set {default} bootstatuspolicy ignoreallfailures & bcdedit /set {default} recoveryenabled no```
* ```REAgentC.exe``` can be used to disable Windows Recovery Environment (WinRE) repair/recovery options of an infected system
* ```diskshadow.exe``` can be used to delete all volume shadow copies on a system - ```diskshadow delete shadows all```  

On network devices, adversaries may leverage Disk Wipe (T1561) to delete backup firmware images and reformat the file system, then System Shutdown/Reboot (T1529) to reload the device. Together this activity may leave network devices completely inoperable and inhibit recovery operations.

On ESXi servers, adversaries may delete or encrypt snapshots of virtual machines to support Data Encrypted for Impact (T1486), preventing them from being leveraged as backups (e.g., via ` vim-cmd vmsvc/snapshot.removeall`).

Adversaries may also delete “online” backups that are connected to their network – whether via network storage media or through folders that sync to cloud services. In cloud environments, adversaries may disable versioning and backup policies and delete snapshots, database backups, machine images, and prior versions of objects designed to be used in disaster recovery scenarios.

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command line parameters of binaries involved in inhibiting system recovery, such as vssadmin, wbadmin, bcdedit, REAgentC, and diskshadow. The Windows event logs, ex. Event ID 524 indicating a system catalog was deleted, may contain entries associated with suspicious activity.

Monitor the status of services involved in system recovery. Monitor the registry for changes associated with system recovery features (ex: the creation of ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Policies\Microsoft\PreviousVersions\DisableLocalPage```).

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for `erase`, `format`, and `reload` commands being run in succession.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command line parameters of binaries involved in inhibiting system recovery, such as `vssadmin`, `wbadmin`, and `bcdedit`. After compromising a network of systems, threat actors often try to delete/resize Shadow Copy in an attempt to prevent administrators from restoring the systems to versions present before the attack. This is often done via vssadmin, a legitimate Windows tool to interact with shadow copies. This action is often employed by ransomware, may lead to a failure in recovering systems after an attack. The pseudo code detection focus on Windows Security and Sysmon process creation (4688 and 1). The use of wmic to delete shadow copy generates WMI-Activity Operationnal 5857 event and could generate 5858 (if the operation fails). These 2 EventIDs could be interesting when attackers use wmic without process creation and/or for forensics.

Analytic 1 - Detecting Shadow Copy Deletion or Resize
 
```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688")(CommandLine="*vssadmin* *delete* *shadows*" OR CommandLine="*wmic* *shadowcopy* *delete*" OR CommandLine="*vssadmin* *resize* *shadowstorage*")) OR (EventCode="5857" ProviderName="MSVSS__PROVIDER") OR (EventCode="5858" Operation="*Win32_ShadowCopy*")```

Analytic 2 - BCDEdit Failure Recovery Modification
 
```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image= "C:\Windows\System32\bcdedit.exe" AND CommandLine="*recoveryenabled*"```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor the registry for changes associated with system recovery features (ex: the creation of ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Policies\Microsoft\PreviousVersions\DisableLocalPage```).

#### Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage Deletion (DS0010): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a cloud storage objects (ex: AWS `DeleteObject`), especially those associated with cloud backups.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command line parameters of binaries involved in inhibiting system recovery, such as `vssadmin`, `wbadmin`, and `bcdedit`.

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Monitor the status of services involved in system recovery.

Note: For Windows, Event ID 7040 can be used to alert on changes to the start type of a service (e.g., going from enabled at startup to disabled) associated with system recovery. 

#### Snapshot: Snapshot Deletion (DS0020): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of snapshots (ex: AWS `DeleteSnapshot`, `DeleteDBSnapshot`), especially those associated with cloud backups.

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
The Windows event logs, ex. Event ID 524 indicating a system catalog was deleted, may contain entries associated with suspicious activity.

