# SMS Pumping (T1496.003)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage messaging services for SMS pumping, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. SMS pumping is a type of telecommunications fraud whereby a threat actor first obtains a set of phone numbers from a telecommunications provider, then leverages a victim’s messaging infrastructure to send large amounts of SMS messages to numbers in that set. By generating SMS traffic to their phone number set, a threat actor may earn payments from the telecommunications provider.

Threat actors often use publicly available web forms, such as one-time password (OTP) or account verification fields, in order to generate SMS traffic. These fields may leverage services such as Twilio, AWS SNS, and Amazon Cognito in the background. In response to the large quantity of requests, SMS costs may increase and communication channels may become overwhelmed.

## Parent Technique
- Resource Hijacking (T1496)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Mitigations
- Application Developer Guidance (M1013)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for excessive use of SMS services, especially on public sign-up forms. For example, alert on large quantities of messages sent to adjacent numbers. In SMS-based OTP flows, monitor for large quantities of incomplete verification cycles. In Amazon Cognito environments, monitor for spikes in calls to the `SignUp` or `ResendConfirmationCode` API.

