# Defacement (T1491)

## Description
Adversaries may modify visual content available internally or externally to an enterprise network, thus affecting the integrity of the original content. Reasons for Defacement (T1491) include delivering messaging, intimidation, or claiming (possibly false) credit for an intrusion. Disturbing or offensive images may be used as a part of Defacement (T1491) in order to cause user discomfort, or to pressure compliance with accompanying messages. 


## Sub-techniques
- External Defacement (T1491.002)
- Internal Defacement (T1491.001)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Mitigations
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection
Monitor internal and external websites for unplanned content changes. Monitor application logs for abnormal behavior that may indicate attempted or successful exploitation. Use deep packet inspection to look for artifacts of common exploit traffic, such as SQL injection. Web Application Firewalls may detect improper inputs attempting exploitation.



### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g. unauthorized, gratuitous, or anomalous traffic patterns attempting to access internal and external websites and services). Consider correlating with application monitoring for indication of unplanned service interruptions or unauthorized content changes.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed visual content for internal or external enterprise networks. 

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may modify visual content available internally or externally to an enterprise network. 

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files for unexpected modifications to internal and external websites for unplanned content changes.

