# Bandwidth Hijacking (T1496.002)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage the network bandwidth resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks, which may impact system and/or hosted service availability. 

Adversaries may also use malware that leverages a system's network bandwidth as part of a botnet in order to facilitate Network Denial of Service (T1498) campaigns and/or to seed malicious torrents. Alternatively, they may engage in proxyjacking by selling use of the victims' network bandwidth and IP address to proxyware services. Finally, they may engage in internet-wide scanning in order to identify additional targets for compromise.

In addition to incurring potential financial costs or availability disruptions, this technique may cause reputational damage if a victim’s bandwidth is used for illegal activities.

## Parent Technique
- Resource Hijacking (T1496)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for common proxyware files on local systems that may indicate compromise and resource usage. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may indicate common proxyware functionality. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for common proxyware software process names that may indicate compromise and resource usage. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic content for strange or unusual patterns. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. Look for connections to/from strange ports. 

