# Web Shell (T1505.003)

## Description
Adversaries may backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems. A Web shell is a Web script that is placed on an openly accessible Web server to allow an adversary to access the Web server as a gateway into a network. A Web shell may provide a set of functions to execute or a command-line interface on the system that hosts the Web server.

In addition to a server-side script, a Web shell may have a client interface program that is used to talk to the Web server (e.g. China Chopper Web shell client).

## Parent Technique
- Server Software Component (T1505)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- CURIUM (G1012)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- APT28 (G0007)
- OilRig (G0049)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- Agrius (G1030)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- APT39 (G0087)
- Volatile Cedar (G0123)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Moses Staff (G1009)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- Tonto Team (G0131)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT38 (G0082)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- APT5 (G1023)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Sea Turtle (G1041)
- Kimsuky (G0094)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Web shells can be difficult to detect. Unlike other forms of persistent remote access, they do not initiate connections. The portion of the Web shell that is on the server may be small and innocuous looking. The PHP version of the China Chopper Web shell, for example, is the following short payload:  

```&lt;?php @eval($_POST['password']);&gt;```

Nevertheless, detection mechanisms exist. Process monitoring may be used to detect Web servers that perform suspicious actions such as spawning cmd.exe or accessing files that are not in the Web directory.

File monitoring may be used to detect changes to files in the Web directory of a Web server that do not match with updates to the Web server's content and may indicate implantation of a Web shell script.

Log authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traffic patterns to or from the server and internal network. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems. Log authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traffic patterns to or from the server and internal network. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Web shells can be difficult to detect. Unlike other forms of persistent remote access, they do not initiate connections. The portion of the Web shell that is on the server may be small and innocuous looking. The PHP version of the China Chopper Web shell, for example, is very similar to the following short payload: 

`<?php @evaI($_P0ST['password']);>`

Nevertheless, detection mechanisms exist. Process monitoring may be used to detect Web servers that perform suspicious actions such as spawning cmd.exe or accessing files that are not in the Web directory.

A web shell is a web script placed on an openly accessible web server to allow an adversary to use the server as a gatway in a network. As the shell operates, commands will be issued from within the web application into the broader server operating system. This analytic looks for host enumeration executables initiated by any web service that would not normally be executed within that environment.

Analytic 1 - Webshell-Indicative Process Tree

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") (ParentImage="C:\\Windows\\System32\\*w3wp.exe" OR ParentImage="*httpd.exe" OR ParentImage="*tomcat*.exe" OR ParentImage="*nginx.exe")
(Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\cmd.exe OR Image="C:\\Windows\\SysWOW64\\cmd.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\*\\powershell.exe OR Image="C:\\Windows\SysWOW64\\*\powershell.exe OR Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\net.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\hostname.exe" OR Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\whoami.exe" OR Image="*systeminfo.exe OR Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\ipconfig.exe")```

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
File monitoring may be used to detect changes to files in the Web directory of a Web server that do not match with updates to the Web server's content and may indicate implantation of a Web shell script.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems.

