# IIS Components (T1505.004)

## Description
Adversaries may install malicious components that run on Internet Information Services (IIS) web servers to establish persistence. IIS provides several mechanisms to extend the functionality of the web servers. For example, Internet Server Application Programming Interface (ISAPI) extensions and filters can be installed to examine and/or modify incoming and outgoing IIS web requests. Extensions and filters are deployed as DLL files that export three functions: ```Get{Extension/Filter}Version```, ```Http{Extension/Filter}Proc```, and (optionally) ```Terminate{Extension/Filter}```. IIS modules may also be installed to extend IIS web servers.

Adversaries may install malicious ISAPI extensions and filters to observe and/or modify traffic, execute commands on compromised machines, or proxy command and control traffic. ISAPI extensions and filters may have access to all IIS web requests and responses. For example, an adversary may abuse these mechanisms to modify HTTP responses in order to distribute malicious commands/content to previously comprised hosts.

Adversaries may also install malicious IIS modules to observe and/or modify traffic. IIS 7.0 introduced modules that provide the same unrestricted access to HTTP requests and responses as ISAPI extensions and filters. IIS modules can be written as a DLL that exports ```RegisterModule```, or as a .NET application that interfaces with ASP.NET APIs to access IIS HTTP requests.

## Parent Technique
- Server Software Component (T1505)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Audit (M1047)
- Code Signing (M1045)

## Detection
Monitor for creation and/or modification of files (especially DLLs on webservers) that could be abused as malicious ISAPI extensions/filters or IIS modules. Changes to ```%windir%\system32\inetsrv\config\applicationhost.config``` could indicate an IIS module installation.

Monitor execution and command-line arguments of ```AppCmd.exe```, which may be abused to install malicious IIS modules.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for creation of files (especially DLLs on webservers) that could be abused as malicious ISAPI extensions/filters or IIS modules.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor execution and command-line arguments of ```AppCmd.exe```, which may be abused to install malicious IIS modules.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for modification of files (especially DLLs on webservers) that could be abused as malicious ISAPI extensions/filters or IIS modules. Changes to ```%windir%\system32\inetsrv\config\applicationhost.config``` could indicate an IIS module installation.

