# Server Software Component (T1505)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent access to systems. Enterprise server applications may include features that allow developers to write and install software or scripts to extend the functionality of the main application. Adversaries may install malicious components to extend and abuse server applications.

## Sub-techniques
- Transport Agent (T1505.002)
- Terminal Services DLL (T1505.005)
- Web Shell (T1505.003)
- IIS Components (T1505.004)
- vSphere Installation Bundles (T1505.006)
- SQL Stored Procedures (T1505.001)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Code Signing (M1045)
- Audit (M1047)
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Boot Integrity (M1046)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Consider monitoring application logs for abnormal behavior that may indicate suspicious installation of application software components. Consider monitoring file locations associated with the installation of new application software components such as paths from which applications typically load such extensible components.

Process monitoring may be used to detect servers components that perform suspicious actions such as running cmd.exe or accessing files. Log authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traffic patterns to or from the server and internal network.  

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent access to systems. Consider monitoring application logs for abnormal behavior that may indicate suspicious installation of application software components. Log authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traffic patterns to or from the server and internal network. 

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent access to systems.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Consider monitoring file locations associated with the installation of new application software components such as paths from which applications typically load such extensible components.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Process monitoring may be used to detect servers components that perform suspicious actions such as running cmd.exe or accessing files.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor command-line arguments that may involve installing new server software components.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s), leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traffic, that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)). 

