# Software Discovery (T1518)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of software and software versions that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment. Adversaries may use the information from Software Discovery (T1518) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Such software may be deployed widely across the environment for configuration management or security reasons, such as Software Deployment Tools (T1072), and may allow adversaries broad access to infect devices or move laterally.

Adversaries may attempt to enumerate software for a variety of reasons, such as figuring out what security measures are present or if the compromised system has a version of software that is vulnerable to Exploitation for Privilege Escalation (T1068).

## Sub-techniques
- Security Software Discovery (T1518.001)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Windigo (G0124)
- Inception (G0100)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Windshift (G0112)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as lateral movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to get a listing of software and software versions that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get a listing of software and software versions that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to get a listing of software and software versions that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment.

#### Firewall: Firewall Enumeration (DS0018): 
Monitor for an extracted list of available firewalls and/or their associated settings/rules (ex: Azure Network Firewall CLI Show commands)

#### Firewall: Firewall Metadata (DS0018): 
Monitor for contextual data about a firewall and activity around it such as name, policy, or status

