# Security Software Discovery (T1518.001)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of security software, configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment. This may include things such as cloud monitoring agents and anti-virus. Adversaries may use the information from Security Software Discovery (T1518.001) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Example commands that can be used to obtain security software information are netsh, ```reg query``` with Reg, ```dir``` with cmd, and Tasklist, but other indicators of discovery behavior may be more specific to the type of software or security system the adversary is looking for. It is becoming more common to see macOS malware perform checks for LittleSnitch and KnockKnock software.

Adversaries may also utilize the Cloud API (T1059.009) to discover cloud-native security software installed on compute infrastructure, such as the AWS CloudWatch agent, Azure VM Agent, and Google Cloud Monitor agent. These agents  may collect  metrics and logs from the VM, which may be centrally aggregated in a cloud-based monitoring platform.

## Parent Technique
- Software Discovery (T1518)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Windshift (G0112)
- APT38 (G0082)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- APT42 (G1044)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- The White Company (G0089)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Malteiro (G1026)
- Turla (G0010)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Play (G1040)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Rocke (G0106)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as lateral movement, based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation (T1047) and PowerShell (T1059.001).

In cloud environments, additionally monitor logs for the usage of APIs that may be used to gather information about security software configurations within the environment.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to get a listing of security software, configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment.

#### Firewall: Firewall Metadata (DS0018): 
Monitor for contextual data about a firewall and activity around it such as name, policy, or status

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get a listing of security software, configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment.

Note: For Windows, Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational log) captures Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on potential Security Software Discovery. 

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to get a listing of security software, configurations, defensive tools, and sensors that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment. OS API calls associated with LSASS process dumping include EnumProcesses, which can be used to enumerate the set of processes running on a host and filtered to look for security-specific processes. 

Note: Most EDR tools do not support direct monitoring of API calls due to the sheer volume of calls produced by an endpoint but may have alerts or events that are based on abstractions of OS API calls. Dynamic malware analysis tools (i.e., sandboxes) can be used to trace the execution, including OS API calls, for a single PE binary. 

#### Firewall: Firewall Enumeration (DS0018): 
Monitor for an extracted list of available firewalls and/or their associated settings/rules (ex: Azure Network Firewall CLI Show commands)

