# Implant Internal Image (T1525)

## Description
Adversaries may implant cloud or container images with malicious code to establish persistence after gaining access to an environment. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Images, and Azure Images as well as popular container runtimes such as Docker can be implanted or backdoored. Unlike Upload Malware (T1608.001), this technique focuses on adversaries implanting an image in a registry within a victim’s environment. Depending on how the infrastructure is provisioned, this could provide persistent access if the infrastructure provisioning tool is instructed to always use the latest image.

A tool has been developed to facilitate planting backdoors in cloud container images. If an adversary has access to a compromised AWS instance, and permissions to list the available container images, they may implant a backdoor such as a Web Shell (T1505.003).

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Code Signing (M1045)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Monitor interactions with images and containers by users to identify ones that are added or modified anomalously.

In containerized environments, changes may be detectable by monitoring the Docker daemon logs or setting up and monitoring Kubernetes audit logs depending on registry configuration. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Image: Image Metadata (DS0007): 
Periodically baseline virtual machine images to identify malicious modifications or additions.

#### Image: Image Creation (DS0007): 
Monitor interactions with images and containers by users to identify ones that are added anomalously.

#### Image: Image Modification (DS0007): 
Monitor interactions with images and containers by users to identify ones that are modified anomalously.
In containerized environments, changes may be detectable by monitoring the Docker daemon logs or setting up and monitoring Kubernetes audit logs depending on registry configuration.

