# System Shutdown/Reboot (T1529)

## Description
Adversaries may shutdown/reboot systems to interrupt access to, or aid in the destruction of, those systems. Operating systems may contain commands to initiate a shutdown/reboot of a machine or network device. In some cases, these commands may also be used to initiate a shutdown/reboot of a remote computer or network device via Network Device CLI (T1059.008) (e.g. ```reload```). They may also include shutdown/reboot of a virtual machine via hypervisor / cloud consoles or command line tools.

Shutting down or rebooting systems may disrupt access to computer resources for legitimate users while also impeding incident response/recovery.

Adversaries may attempt to shutdown/reboot a system after impacting it in other ways, such as Disk Structure Wipe (T1561.002) or Inhibit System Recovery (T1490), to hasten the intended effects on system availability.

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command line parameters of binaries involved in shutting down or rebooting systems. Windows event logs may also designate activity associated with a shutdown/reboot, ex. Event ID 1074 and 6006. Unexpected or unauthorized commands from network cli on network devices may also be associated with shutdown/reboot, e.g. the ```reload``` command.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes of binaries involved in shutting down or rebooting systems.

#### Sensor Health: Host Status (DS0013): 
Monitor for logging, messaging, and other artifacts highlighting the health of host sensors (ex: metrics, errors, and/or exceptions from logging applications) that may suggest the shutting down or rebooting of the system. Windows event logs may also designate activity associated with a shutdown/reboot, ex. Event ID 1074 and 6006.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments of binaries involved in shutting down or rebooting systems. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially those run by unexpected or unauthorized users. On ESXi servers, monitor for suspicious commands that terminate VMs, such as `esxcli vm process kill`,  `pkill –9 vmx-*`, or `vim-cmd vmsvc/power.off `.

