# Account Access Removal (T1531)

## Description
Adversaries may interrupt availability of system and network resources by inhibiting access to accounts utilized by legitimate users. Accounts may be deleted, locked, or manipulated (ex: changed credentials) to remove access to accounts. Adversaries may also subsequently log off and/or perform a System Shutdown/Reboot (T1529) to set malicious changes into place.

In Windows, Net utility, ```Set-LocalUser``` and ```Set-ADAccountPassword``` PowerShell (T1059.001) cmdlets may be used by adversaries to modify user accounts. Accounts could also be disabled by Group Policy. In Linux, the ```passwd``` utility may be used to change passwords. On ESXi servers, accounts can be removed or modified via esxcli (`system account set`, `system account remove`).

Adversaries who use ransomware or similar attacks may first perform this and other Impact behaviors, such as Data Destruction (T1485) and Defacement (T1491), in order to impede incident response/recovery before completing the Data Encrypted for Impact (T1486) objective. 

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- Akira (G1024)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)

## Detection
Use process monitoring to monitor the execution and command line parameters of binaries involved in deleting accounts or changing passwords, such as use of Net. Windows event logs may also designate activity associated with an adversary's attempt to remove access to an account:

* Event ID 4723 - An attempt was made to change an account's password
* Event ID 4724 - An attempt was made to reset an account's password
* Event ID 4726 - A user account was deleted
* Event ID 4740 - A user account was locked out

Alerting on Net and these Event IDs may generate a high degree of false positives, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for changes made to AD settings for unexpected modifications to user accounts, such as deletions or potentially malicious changes to user attributes (credentials, status, etc.).

Analytic 1 - Unusual password change operations

``` index="m365_audit_logs" Operation="Change user password"
| stats count by Actor, TargetUser
| where Actor!="expected_actor" AND TargetUser!="expected_target_user"```

#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor for changes made to user accounts for unexpected modification of properties, such as passwords or status (enabled/disabled). Windows event logs may designate activity associated with an adversary's attempt to remove access to an account:
Event ID 4723 - An attempt was made to change an account's password
Event ID 4724 - An attempt was made to reset an account's password
Event ID 4725 - A user account was disabled

Alerting on these Event IDs may generate a high degree of false positives, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

#### User Account: User Account Deletion (DS0002): 
Monitor for unexpected deletions of user accounts. Windows event logs may designate activity associated with an adversary's attempt to remove an account (ex: Event ID 4726 - A user account was deleted).

Alerting on these Event IDs may generate a high degree of false positives, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible.

