# Steal Web Session Cookie (T1539)

## Description
An adversary may steal web application or service session cookies and use them to gain access to web applications or Internet services as an authenticated user without needing credentials. Web applications and services often use session cookies as an authentication token after a user has authenticated to a website.

Cookies are often valid for an extended period of time, even if the web application is not actively used. Cookies can be found on disk, in the process memory of the browser, and in network traffic to remote systems. Additionally, other applications on the targets machine might store sensitive authentication cookies in memory (e.g. apps which authenticate to cloud services). Session cookies can be used to bypasses some multi-factor authentication protocols.

There are several examples of malware targeting cookies from web browsers on the local system. Adversaries may also steal cookies by injecting malicious JavaScript content into websites or relying on User Execution (T1204) by tricking victims into running malicious JavaScript in their browser.

There are also open source frameworks such as `Evilginx2` and `Muraena` that can gather session cookies through a malicious proxy (e.g., Adversary-in-the-Middle (T1557)) that can be set up by an adversary and used in phishing campaigns.

After an adversary acquires a valid cookie, they can then perform a Web Session Cookie (T1550.004) technique to login to the corresponding web application.

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- Evilnum (G0120)
- Star Blizzard (G1033)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- APT42 (G1044)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Update Software (M1051)
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection
Monitor for attempts to access files and repositories on a local system that are used to store browser session cookies. Monitor for attempts by programs to inject into or dump browser process memory.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for attempts by programs to inject into or dump browser process memory.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access or injection into browser processes.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688 OR EventCode=4663) OR
(index=sysmon sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode=1 OR EventCode=10) OR
(index=os sourcetype="linux_secure" action="execve" OR action="ptrace") OR
(index=os sourcetype="macos_secure" event_type="execve" OR event_type="ptrace") OR
(index=gsuite sourcetype="gsuite:admin" event_name="LOGIN" event_type="cookie_auth") OR
(index=o365 sourcetype="o365:management:activity" Operation="UserLoginViaCookie")```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for an attempt by a user to gain access to a network or computing resource, often by providing credentials to cloud service management consoles. Some cloud providers, such as AWS, provide distinct log events for login attempts to the management console.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected access to web session cookies files.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName="*\\AppData\\Roaming\\*\\Cookies\\*" OR ObjectName="*\\AppData\\Local\\*\\Cookies\\*") OR
(index=sysmon sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode=11 TargetObject="*\\AppData\\Roaming\\*\\Cookies\\*" OR TargetObject="*\\AppData\\Local\\*\\Cookies\\*") OR
(index=os sourcetype="linux_audit" (filepath="/home/*/.mozilla/firefox/*.default-release/cookies.sqlite" OR filepath="/home/*/.config/google-chrome/Default/Cookies")) OR
(index=os sourcetype="macos_secure" file_path="/Users/*/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/Default/Cookies") OR
(index=gsuite sourcetype="gsuite:admin" event_name="LOGIN" event_type="cookie_auth") OR
(index=o365 sourcetype="o365:management:activity" Operation="UserLoginViaCookie")```

