# Active Setup (T1547.014)

## Description
Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a Registry key to the Active Setup of the local machine. Active Setup is a Windows mechanism that is used to execute programs when a user logs in. The value stored in the Registry key will be executed after a user logs into the computer. These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

Adversaries may abuse Active Setup by creating a key under ``` HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\``` and setting a malicious value for ```StubPath```. This value will serve as the program that will be executed when a user logs into the computer.

Adversaries can abuse these components to execute malware, such as remote access tools, to maintain persistence through system reboots. Adversaries may also use Masquerading (T1036) to make the Registry entries look as if they are associated with legitimate programs.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Detection
Monitor Registry key additions and/or modifications to ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\```.

Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing the Active Setup Registry locations and startup folders. Suspicious program execution as startup programs may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may achieve persistence by adding a Registry key to the Active Setup of the local machine.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor Registry key additions to ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\```.
Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing the Active Setup Registry locations and startup folders. Suspicious program execution as startup programs may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may achieve persistence by adding a Registry key to the Active Setup of the local machine.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor Registry key modifications to ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Active Setup\Installed Components\```.
Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing the Active Setup Registry locations and startup folders. Suspicious program execution as startup programs may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data.

