# Registry Run Keys / Startup Folder (T1547.001)

## Description
Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a program to a startup folder or referencing it with a Registry run key. Adding an entry to the "run keys" in the Registry or startup folder will cause the program referenced to be executed when a user logs in. These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.

The following run keys are created by default on Windows systems:

* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run```
* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce```
* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run```
* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce```

Run keys may exist under multiple hives. The ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx``` is also available but is not created by default on Windows Vista and newer. Registry run key entries can reference programs directly or list them as a dependency. For example, it is possible to load a DLL at logon using a "Depend" key with RunOnceEx: ```reg add HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnceEx\0001\Depend /v 1 /d "C:\temp\evil[.]dll"``` 

Placing a program within a startup folder will also cause that program to execute when a user logs in. There is a startup folder location for individual user accounts as well as a system-wide startup folder that will be checked regardless of which user account logs in. The startup folder path for the current user is ```C:\Users\\[Username]\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup```. The startup folder path for all users is ```C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\StartUp```.

The following Registry keys can be used to set startup folder items for persistence:

* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders```
* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Shell Folders```
* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\Shell Folders```
* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders```

The following Registry keys can control automatic startup of services during boot:

* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServicesOnce```
* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServicesOnce```
* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServices```
* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunServices```

Using policy settings to specify startup programs creates corresponding values in either of two Registry keys:

* ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run```
* ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\Explorer\Run```

Programs listed in the load value of the registry key ```HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows``` run automatically for the currently logged-on user.

By default, the multistring ```BootExecute``` value of the registry key ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager``` is set to ```autocheck autochk *```. This value causes Windows, at startup, to check the file-system integrity of the hard disks if the system has been shut down abnormally. Adversaries can add other programs or processes to this registry value which will automatically launch at boot.

Adversaries can use these configuration locations to execute malware, such as remote access tools, to maintain persistence through system reboots. Adversaries may also use Masquerading (T1036) to make the Registry entries look as if they are associated with legitimate programs.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT19 (G0073)
- APT37 (G0067)
- APT39 (G0087)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- RTM (G0048)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Inception (G0100)
- APT28 (G0007)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Silence (G0091)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- APT29 (G0016)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Turla (G0010)
- Putter Panda (G0024)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Windshift (G0112)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- FIN10 (G0051)
- PROMETHIUM (G0056)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Molerats (G0021)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- LazyScripter (G0140)
- APT3 (G0022)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- APT33 (G0064)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Confucius (G0142)
- APT18 (G0026)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT32 (G0050)

## Detection
Monitor Registry for changes to run keys that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Monitor the start folder for additions or changes. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing the run keys' Registry locations and startup folders.  Suspicious program execution as startup programs may show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared against historical data.

Changes to these locations typically happen under normal conditions when legitimate software is installed. To increase confidence of malicious activity, data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may achieve persistence by adding a program to a startup folder or referencing it with a Registry run key.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor the start folder for additions or changes. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including the startup folders. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes executed from the Run/RunOnce registry keys through Windows EID 9707 or “Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run” and “Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\RunOnce” registry keys with the full command line.

Registry modifications are often essential in establishing persistence via known Windows mechanisms. Many legitimate modifications are done graphically via regedit.exe or by using the corresponding channels, or even calling the Registry APIs directly. The built-in utility reg.exe provides a command-line interface to the registry, so that queries and modifications can be performed from a shell, such as cmd.exe. When a user is responsible for these actions, the parent of cmd.exe will likely be explorer.exe. Occasionally, power users and administrators write scripts that do this behavior as well, but likely from a different process tree. These background scripts must be learned so they can be tuned out accordingly.

Output Description
The sequence of processes that resulted in reg.exe being started from a shell. That is, a hierarchy that looks like
• great-grand_parent.exe
• grand_parent.exe
• parent.exe
• reg.exe

Analytic 1 - Reg.exe called from Command Shell

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="reg.exe" AND ParentImage="cmd.exe"
| join left=L right=R where L.ParentProcessGuid = R.ProcessGuid 
    [search EventCode IN (1, 4688) Image="*cmd.exe" ParentImage!="*explorer.exe"]```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for newly created windows registry keys that may achieve persistence by adding a program to a startup folder or referencing it with a Registry run key.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor Registry for changes to run keys that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing the run keys' Registry locations. 

Detection of the modification of the registry key ```Common Startup``` located in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders\ and HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\User Shell Folders\. When a user logs on, any files located in the Startup Folder are launched. Attackers may modify these folders with other files in order to evade detection set on these default folders. This detection focuses on EventIDs 4688 and 1 for process creation and EventID 4657 for the modification of the Registry Keys.

Analytic 1 - Modification of Default Startup Folder in the Registry Key ‘Common Startup’

```(source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4657" ObjectValueName="Common Startup") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="13" TargetObject="*Common Startup")```

