# Bypass User Account Control (T1548.002)

## Description
Adversaries may bypass UAC mechanisms to elevate process privileges on system. Windows User Account Control (UAC) allows a program to elevate its privileges (tracked as integrity levels ranging from low to high) to perform a task under administrator-level permissions, possibly by prompting the user for confirmation. The impact to the user ranges from denying the operation under high enforcement to allowing the user to perform the action if they are in the local administrators group and click through the prompt or allowing them to enter an administrator password to complete the action.

If the UAC protection level of a computer is set to anything but the highest level, certain Windows programs can elevate privileges or execute some elevated Component Object Model (T1559.001) objects without prompting the user through the UAC notification box. An example of this is use of Rundll32 (T1218.011) to load a specifically crafted DLL which loads an auto-elevated Component Object Model (T1559.001) object and performs a file operation in a protected directory which would typically require elevated access. Malicious software may also be injected into a trusted process to gain elevated privileges without prompting a user.

Many methods have been discovered to bypass UAC. The Github readme page for UACME contains an extensive list of methods that have been discovered and implemented, but may not be a comprehensive list of bypasses. Additional bypass methods are regularly discovered and some used in the wild, such as:

* ```eventvwr.exe``` can auto-elevate and execute a specified binary or script.

Another bypass is possible through some lateral movement techniques if credentials for an account with administrator privileges are known, since UAC is a single system security mechanism, and the privilege or integrity of a process running on one system will be unknown on remote systems and default to high integrity.

## Parent Technique
- Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism (T1548)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)
- Evilnum (G0120)
- APT37 (G0067)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Control (M1052)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
There are many ways to perform UAC bypasses when a user is in the local administrator group on a system, so it may be difficult to target detection on all variations. Efforts should likely be placed on mitigation and collecting enough information on process launches and actions that could be performed before and after a UAC bypass is performed. Monitor process API calls for behavior that may be indicative of Process Injection (T1055) and unusual loaded DLLs through DLL (T1574.001), which indicate attempts to gain access to higher privileged processes.

Some UAC bypass methods rely on modifying specific, user-accessible Registry settings. For example:

* The ```eventvwr.exe``` bypass uses the ```[HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Classes\mscfile\shell\open\command``` Registry key.

* The ```sdclt.exe``` bypass uses the ```[HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\App Paths\control.exe``` and ```[HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Classes\exefile\shell\runas\command\isolatedCommand``` Registry keys.

Analysts should monitor these Registry settings for unauthorized changes.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Some UAC bypass methods rely on modifying specific, user-accessible Registry settings. For example:
* The ```eventvwr.exe``` bypass uses the ```[HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Classes\mscfile\shell\open\command``` Registry key.
* The ```sdclt.exe``` bypass uses the ```[HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\App Paths\control.exe``` and ```[HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Classes\exefile\shell\runas\command\isolatedCommand``` Registry keys.
Analysts should monitor these Registry settings for unauthorized changes.

UAC Bypass is an interesting technique in that new implementations are regularly found and existing implementations may be fixed (i.e., patched) by Microsoft in new builds of Windows. Therefore, it is important to validate than detections for UAC Bypass are still relevant (i.e., they target non-patched implementations). 

Note: Sysmon Event ID 12 (Registry Key Create/Delete), Sysmon Event ID 13 (Registry Value Set), and Sysmon Event ID 14 (Registry Key and Value Rename) are useful for creating detections around Registry Key Modification in the context of UAC Bypass.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may bypass UAC mechanisms to elevate process privileges on system.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes, such as ```eventvwr.exe``` and ```sdclt.exe```, that may bypass UAC mechanisms to elevate process privileges on system.

Threat actors often, after compromising a machine, try to disable User Access Control (UAC) to escalate privileges. This is often done by changing the registry key for system policies using “reg.exe”, a legitimate tool provided by Microsoft for modifying the registry via command prompt or scripts. This action interferes with UAC and may enable a threat actor to escalate privileges on the compromised system, thereby allowing further exploitation of the system.

Analytic 1 - UAC Bypass

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688")  IntegrityLevel=High|search (ParentCommandLine="\"c:\\windows\\system32\\dism.exe\"*""*.xml" AND Image!="c:\\users\\*\\appdata\\local\\temp\\*\\dismhost.exe") OR ParentImage=c:\\windows\\system32\\fodhelper.exe OR (CommandLine="\"c:\\windows\\system32\\wusa.exe\"*/quiet*" AND User!=NOT_TRANSLATED AND CurrentDirectory=c:\\windows\\system32\\ AND ParentImage!=c:\\windows\\explorer.exe) OR CommandLine="*.exe\"*cleanmgr.exe /autoclean*" OR (ParentImage="c:\\windows\\*dccw.exe" AND Image!="c:\\windows\\system32\\cttune.exe") OR Image="c:\\program files\\windows media player\\osk.exe" OR ParentImage="c:\\windows\\system32\\slui.exe"|eval PossibleTechniques=case(like(lower(ParentCommandLine),"%c:\\windows\\system32\\dism.exe%"), "UACME #23", like(lower(Image),"c:\\program files\\windows media player\\osk.exe"), "UACME #32", like(lower(ParentImage),"c:\\windows\\system32\\fodhelper.exe"),  "UACME #33", like(lower(CommandLine),"%.exe\"%cleanmgr.exe /autoclean%"), "UACME #34", like(lower(Image),"c:\\windows\\system32\\wusa.exe"), "UACME #36", like(lower(ParentImage),"c:\\windows\\%dccw.exe"), "UACME #37", like(lower(ParentImage),"c:\\windows\\system32\\slui.exe"), "UACME #45") ```

Analytic 2 - Disable UAC

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") ParentImage="C:\\Windows\\System32\\cmd.exe" CommandLine="reg.exe*HKLM\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion\\Policies\\System*REG_DWORD /d 0*""```

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such as environment variables, image name, user/owner that may bypass UAC mechanisms to elevate process privileges on system.

