# Re-opened Applications (T1547.007)

## Description
Adversaries may modify plist files to automatically run an application when a user logs in. When a user logs out or restarts via the macOS Graphical User Interface (GUI), a prompt is provided to the user with a checkbox to "Reopen windows when logging back in". When selected, all applications currently open are added to a property list file named ```com.apple.loginwindow.[UUID].plist``` within the ```~/Library/Preferences/ByHost``` directory. Applications listed in this file are automatically reopened upon the user’s next logon.

Adversaries can establish Persistence (TA0003) by adding a malicious application path to the ```com.apple.loginwindow.[UUID].plist``` file to execute payloads when a user logs in.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection
Monitoring the specific plist files associated with reopening applications can indicate when an application has registered itself to be reopened.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may modify plist files to automatically run an application when a user logs in.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitoring the specific plist files associated with reopening applications can indicate when an application has registered itself to be reopened.

