# AppInit DLLs (T1546.010)

## Description
Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by AppInit DLLs loaded into processes. Dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are specified in the ```AppInit_DLLs``` value in the Registry keys ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows``` or ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows``` are loaded by user32.dll into every process that loads user32.dll. In practice this is nearly every program, since user32.dll is a very common library. 

Similar to Process Injection, these values can be abused to obtain elevated privileges by causing a malicious DLL to be loaded and run in the context of separate processes on the computer.  Malicious AppInit DLLs may also provide persistence by continuously being triggered by API activity. 

The AppInit DLL functionality is disabled in Windows 8 and later versions when secure boot is enabled. 

## Parent Technique
- Event Triggered Execution (T1546)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT39 (G0087)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Update Software (M1051)

## Detection
Monitor DLL loads by processes that load user32.dll and look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process. Monitor the AppInit_DLLs Registry values for modifications that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Monitor and analyze application programming interface (API) calls that are indicative of Registry edits such as ```RegCreateKeyEx``` and ```RegSetValueEx```. 

Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current AppInit DLLs.  

Look for abnormal process behavior that may be due to a process loading a malicious DLL. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as making network connections for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and conducting Lateral Movement.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by AppInit DLLs loaded into processes.

Note: Sysmon Event ID 1 (process create) and Windows Security Log Event ID 4688 (a new process has been created) can be used to detect new reg.exe processes that modify the AppInit DLL registry keys since the registry keys are specified as a command-line parameter.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by AppInit DLLs loaded into processes.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL loads by processes that load user32.dll and look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor the AppInit_DLLs Registry values for modifications that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by AppInit DLLs loaded into processes. Dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are specified in the AppInit_DLLs value in the Registry keys HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows or HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows are loaded by user32.dll into every process that loads user32.dll. These values can be abused to obtain elevated privileges by causing a malicious DLL to be loaded and run in the context of separate processes. Accordingly, this analytic looks for modifications to these registry keys that may be indicative of this type of abuse.

Analytic 1 - AppInit DLLs

``` source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode IN (12, 13, 14) TargetObject= "*\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows\Appinit_Dlls\*" OR
  TargetObject= "*\SOFTWARE\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows\Appinit_Dlls\*"```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor and analyze application programming interface (API) calls that are indicative of Registry edits such as ```RegCreateKeyEx``` and ```RegSetValueEx```. 

