# Component Object Model Hijacking (T1546.015)

## Description
Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by hijacked references to Component Object Model (COM) objects. COM is a system within Windows to enable interaction between software components through the operating system.  References to various COM objects are stored in the Registry. 

Adversaries can use the COM system to insert malicious code that can be executed in place of legitimate software through hijacking the COM references and relationships as a means for persistence. Hijacking a COM object requires a change in the Registry to replace a reference to a legitimate system component which may cause that component to not work when executed. When that system component is executed through normal system operation the adversary's code will be executed instead. An adversary is likely to hijack objects that are used frequently enough to maintain a consistent level of persistence, but are unlikely to break noticeable functionality within the system as to avoid system instability that could lead to detection. 

## Parent Technique
- Event Triggered Execution (T1546)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT28 (G0007)

## Detection
There are opportunities to detect COM hijacking by searching for Registry references that have been replaced and through Registry operations (ex: Reg) replacing known binary paths with unknown paths or otherwise malicious content. Even though some third-party applications define user COM objects, the presence of objects within HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Classes\CLSID\ may be anomalous and should be investigated since user objects will be loaded prior to machine objects in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Classes\CLSID\. Registry entries for existing COM objects may change infrequently. When an entry with a known good path and binary is replaced or changed to an unusual value to point to an unknown binary in a new location, then it may indicate suspicious behavior and should be investigated.  

Likewise, if software DLL loads are collected and analyzed, any unusual DLL load that can be correlated with a COM object Registry modification may indicate COM hijacking has been performed. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by hijacked references to Component Object Model (COM) objects.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Likewise, if software DLL loads are collected and analyzed, any unusual DLL load that can be correlated with a COM object Registry modification may indicate COM hijacking has been performed.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
There are opportunities to detect COM hijacking by searching for Registry references that have been replaced and through Registry operations (ex: Reg) replacing known binary paths with unknown paths or otherwise malicious content. Even though some third-party applications define user COM objects, the presence of objects within HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Classes\CLSID\ may be anomalous and should be investigated since user objects will be loaded prior to machine objects in HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Classes\CLSID\. Registry entries for existing COM objects may change infrequently. When an entry with a known good path and binary is replaced or changed to an unusual value to point to an unknown binary in a new location, then it may indicate suspicious behavior and should be investigated.

Analytic 1 - Component Object Model Hijacking

``` source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode IN (12, 13, 14) TargetObject= "*\Software\Classes\CLSID\*"```


#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by hijacked references to Component Object Model (COM) objects.

Note: Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational log) captures Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on changes to COM registry keys, including HKCU\Software\Classes\CLSID\*.

