# Elevated Execution with Prompt (T1548.004)

## Description
Adversaries may leverage the ```AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges``` API to escalate privileges by prompting the user for credentials. The purpose of this API is to give application developers an easy way to perform operations with root privileges, such as for application installation or updating. This API does not validate that the program requesting root privileges comes from a reputable source or has been maliciously modified. 

Although this API is deprecated, it still fully functions in the latest releases of macOS. When calling this API, the user will be prompted to enter their credentials but no checks on the origin or integrity of the program are made. The program calling the API may also load world writable files which can be modified to perform malicious behavior with elevated privileges.

Adversaries may abuse ```AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges``` to obtain root privileges in order to install malicious software on victims and install persistence mechanisms. This technique may be combined with Masquerading (T1036) to trick the user into granting escalated privileges to malicious code. This technique has also been shown to work by modifying legitimate programs present on the machine that make use of this API.

## Parent Technique
- Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism (T1548)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Consider monitoring for ```/usr/libexec/security_authtrampoline``` executions which may indicate that ```AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges``` is being executed. MacOS system logs may also indicate when ```AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges``` is being called. Monitoring OS API callbacks for the execution can also be a way to detect this behavior but requires specialized security tooling.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Consider monitoring for ```/usr/libexec/security_authtrampoline``` executions which may indicate that ```AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges``` is being executed. MacOS system logs may also indicate when ```AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges``` is being called.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitoring OS API callbacks for the execution can also be a way to detect this behavior but requires specialized security tooling.

