# Create or Modify System Process (T1543)

## Description
Adversaries may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When operating systems boot up, they can start processes that perform background system functions. On Windows and Linux, these system processes are referred to as services. On macOS, launchd processes known as Launch Daemon (T1543.004) and Launch Agent (T1543.001) are run to finish system initialization and load user specific parameters. 

Adversaries may install new services, daemons, or agents that can be configured to execute at startup or a repeatable interval in order to establish persistence. Similarly, adversaries may modify existing services, daemons, or agents to achieve the same effect.  

Services, daemons, or agents may be created with administrator privileges but executed under root/SYSTEM privileges. Adversaries may leverage this functionality to create or modify system processes in order to escalate privileges.  

## Sub-techniques
- Windows Service (T1543.003)
- Launch Daemon (T1543.004)
- Container Service (T1543.005)
- Launch Agent (T1543.001)
- Systemd Service (T1543.002)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Audit (M1047)
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Code Signing (M1045)

## Detection
Monitor for changes to system processes that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc., including by comparing results against a trusted system baseline. New, benign system processes may be created during installation of new software. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.  

Command-line invocation of tools capable of modifying services may be unusual, depending on how systems are typically used in a particular environment. Look for abnormal process call trees from known services and for execution of other commands that could relate to Discovery or other adversary techniques. 

Monitor for changes to files associated with system-level processes.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons that may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. 

#### Container: Container Creation (DS0032): 
Monitor for newly constructed containers that repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence or privilege escalation.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for new service driver installations and loads (ex: Sysmon Event ID 6) that are not part of known software update/patch cycles.

#### Service: Service Modification (DS0019): 
Monitor for changes to system processes that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc., including by comparing results against a trusted system baseline.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
New, benign system processes may be created during installation of new software.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes to windows registry keys and/or values that may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes to files associated with system-level processes.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for newly constructed windows registry keys that may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Command-line invocation of tools capable of modifying services may be unusual, depending on how systems are typically used in a particular environment. Look for abnormal process call trees from known services and for execution of other commands that could relate to Discovery or other adversary techniques.

