# TFTP Boot (T1542.005)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse netbooting to load an unauthorized network device operating system from a Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server. TFTP boot (netbooting) is commonly used by network administrators to load configuration-controlled network device images from a centralized management server. Netbooting is one option in the boot sequence and can be used to centralize, manage, and control device images.

Adversaries may manipulate the configuration on the network device specifying use of a malicious TFTP server, which may be used in conjunction with Modify System Image (T1601) to load a modified image on device startup or reset. The unauthorized image allows adversaries to modify device configuration, add malicious capabilities to the device, and introduce backdoors to maintain control of the network device while minimizing detection through use of a standard functionality. This technique is similar to ROMMONkit (T1542.004) and may result in the network device running a modified image. 

## Parent Technique
- Pre-OS Boot (T1542)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Audit (M1047)
- Boot Integrity (M1046)

## Detection
Consider comparing a copy of the network device configuration and system image against a known-good version to discover unauthorized changes to system boot, startup configuration, or the running OS.  The same process can be accomplished through a comparison of the run-time memory, though this is non-trivial and may require assistance from the vendor.  

Review command history in either the console or as part of the running memory to determine if unauthorized or suspicious commands were used to modify device configuration.  Check boot information including system uptime, image booted, and startup configuration to determine if results are consistent with expected behavior in the environment.  Monitor unusual connections or connection attempts to the device that may specifically target TFTP or other file-sharing protocols.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments in command history in either the console or as part of the running memory to determine if unauthorized or suspicious commands were used to modify device configuration.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network device configuration and system image against a known-good version to discover unauthorized changes to system boot, startup configuration, or the running OS.   The same process can be accomplished through a comparison of the run-time memory, though this is non-trivial and may require assistance from the vendor.

#### Firmware: Firmware Modification (DS0001): 
Monitor for changes to boot information including system uptime, image booted, and startup configuration to determine if results are consistent with expected behavior in the environment.   Monitor unusual connections or connection attempts to the device that may specifically target TFTP or other file-sharing protocols.

