# Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism (T1548)

## Description
Adversaries may circumvent mechanisms designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions. Most modern systems contain native elevation control mechanisms that are intended to limit privileges that a user can perform on a machine. Authorization has to be granted to specific users in order to perform tasks that can be considered of higher risk. An adversary can perform several methods to take advantage of built-in control mechanisms in order to escalate privileges on a system.

## Sub-techniques
- Bypass User Account Control (T1548.002)
- Sudo and Sudo Caching (T1548.003)
- Setuid and Setgid (T1548.001)
- Temporary Elevated Cloud Access (T1548.005)
- Elevated Execution with Prompt (T1548.004)
- TCC Manipulation (T1548.006)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Update Software (M1051)
- User Account Control (M1052)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Audit (M1047)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Monitor the file system for files that have the setuid or setgid bits set. Also look for any process API calls for behavior that may be indicative of Process Injection (T1055) and unusual loaded DLLs through DLL (T1574.001), which indicate attempts to gain access to higher privileged processes. On Linux, auditd can alert every time a user's actual ID and effective ID are different (this is what happens when you sudo).

Consider monitoring for ```/usr/libexec/security_authtrampoline``` executions which may indicate that AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges is being executed. MacOS system logs may also indicate when AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges is being called. Monitoring OS API callbacks for the execution can also be a way to detect this behavior but requires specialized security tooling.

On Linux, auditd can alert every time a user's actual ID and effective ID are different (this is what happens when you sudo). This technique is abusing normal functionality in macOS and Linux systems, but sudo has the ability to log all input and output based on the ```LOG_INPUT``` and ```LOG_OUTPUT``` directives in the ```/etc/sudoers``` file.

There are many ways to perform UAC bypasses when a user is in the local administrator group on a system, so it may be difficult to target detection on all variations. Efforts should likely be placed on mitigation and collecting enough information on process launches and actions that could be performed before and after a UAC bypass is performed. Some UAC bypass methods rely on modifying specific, user-accessible Registry settings. Analysts should monitor Registry settings for unauthorized changes.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may circumvent mechanisms designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions. Cyber actors frequently escalate to the SYSTEM account after gaining entry to a Windows host, to enable them to carry out various attacks more effectively. Tools such as Meterpreter, Cobalt Strike, and Empire carry out automated steps to “Get System”, which is the same as switching over to the System user account. Most of these tools utilize multiple techniques to try and attain SYSTEM: in the first technique, they create a named pipe and connects an instance of cmd.exe to it, which allows them to impersonate the security context of cmd.exe, which is SYSTEM. In the second technique, a malicious DLL is injected into a process that is running as SYSTEM; the injected DLL steals the SYSTEM token and applies it where necessary to escalate privileges. This analytic looks for both of these techniques.

Analytic 1 - Get System Elevation

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688")(ParentImage="C:\\Windows\\System32\\services.exe" Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\cmd.exe"  CommandLine="*echo*" CommandLine="*\pipe\*") OR (Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\rundll32.exe" CommandLine="*,a /p:*")```

#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Log cloud API calls to assume, create, or impersonate additional roles, policies, and permissions. Review uses of just-in-time access to ensure that any justifications provided are valid and only expected actions were taken.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may circumvent mechanisms designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Also look for any process API calls for behavior that may be indicative of Process Injection (T1055). Monitoring OS API callbacks for the execution can also be a way to detect this behavior but requires specialized security tooling.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
On Linux, auditd can alert every time a user's actual ID and effective ID are different (this is what happens when you sudo). This technique is abusing normal functionality in macOS and Linux systems, but sudo has the ability to log all input and output based on the ```LOG_INPUT``` and ```LOG_OUTPUT``` directives in the ```/etc/sudoers``` file. Consider monitoring for ```/usr/libexec/security_authtrampoline``` executions which may indicate that AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges is being executed. MacOS system logs may also indicate when AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges is being called.

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such as environment variables, image name, user/owner that may circumvent mechanisms designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor the file system for files that have the setuid or setgid bits set. On Linux, auditd can alert every time a user's actual ID and effective ID are different (this is what happens when you sudo).

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
There are many ways to perform UAC bypasses when a user is in the local administrator group on a system, so it may be difficult to target detection on all variations. Efforts should likely be placed on mitigation and collecting enough information on process launches and actions that could be performed before and after a UAC bypass is performed. Some UAC bypass methods rely on modifying specific, user-accessible Registry settings. Analysts should monitor Registry settings for unauthorized changes.

