# Login Items (T1547.015)

## Description
Adversaries may add login items to execute upon user login to gain persistence or escalate privileges. Login items are applications, documents, folders, or server connections that are automatically launched when a user logs in. Login items can be added via a shared file list or Service Management Framework. Shared file list login items can be set using scripting languages such as AppleScript (T1059.002), whereas the Service Management Framework uses the API call ```SMLoginItemSetEnabled```.

Login items installed using the Service Management Framework leverage ```launchd```, are not visible in the System Preferences, and can only be removed by the application that created them. Login items created using a shared file list are visible in System Preferences, can hide the application when it launches, and are executed through LaunchServices, not launchd, to open applications, documents, or URLs without using Finder. Users and applications use login items to configure their user environment to launch commonly used services or applications, such as email, chat, and music applications.

Adversaries can utilize AppleScript (T1059.002) and Native API (T1106) calls to create a login item to spawn malicious executables. Prior to version 10.5 on macOS, adversaries can add login items by using AppleScript (T1059.002) to send an Apple events to the “System Events” process, which has an AppleScript dictionary for manipulating login items. Adversaries can use a command such as ```tell application “System Events” to make login item at end with properties /path/to/executable```. This command adds the path of the malicious executable to the login item file list located in ```~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm```. Adversaries can also use login items to launch executables that can be used to control the victim system remotely or as a means to gain privilege escalation by prompting for user credentials.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Detection
All login items created via shared file lists are viewable by using the System Preferences GUI or in the ```~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm``` file. These locations should be monitored and audited for known good applications.

Otherwise, login Items are located in ```Contents/Library/LoginItems``` within an application bundle, so these paths should be monitored as well. Monitor applications that leverage login items with either the LSUIElement or LSBackgroundOnly key in the Info.plist file set to true.

Monitor processes that start at login for unusual or unknown applications. Usual applications for login items could include what users add to configure their user environment, such as email, chat, or music applications, or what administrators include for organization settings and protections. Check for running applications from login items that also have abnormal behavior,, such as establishing network connections.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes that start at login for unusual or unknown applications. Usual applications for login items could include what users add to configure their user environment, such as email, chat, or music applications, or what administrators include for organization settings and protections. Check for running applications from login items that also have abnormal behavior, such as establishing network connections.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
All login items created via shared file lists are viewable by using the System Preferences GUI or in the ```~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm``` file. These locations should be monitored and audited.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
All login items created via shared file lists are viewable by using the System Preferences GUI or in the ```~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm``` file. These locations should be monitored and audited.

