# Bootkit (T1542.003)

## Description
Adversaries may use bootkits to persist on systems. A bootkit is a malware variant that modifies the boot sectors of a hard drive, allowing malicious code to execute before a computer's operating system has loaded. Bootkits reside at a layer below the operating system and may make it difficult to perform full remediation unless an organization suspects one was used and can act accordingly.

In BIOS systems, a bootkit may modify the Master Boot Record (MBR) and/or Volume Boot Record (VBR). The MBR is the section of disk that is first loaded after completing hardware initialization by the BIOS. It is the location of the boot loader. An adversary who has raw access to the boot drive may overwrite this area, diverting execution during startup from the normal boot loader to adversary code.

The MBR passes control of the boot process to the VBR. Similar to the case of MBR, an adversary who has raw access to the boot drive may overwrite the VBR to divert execution during startup to adversary code.

In UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) systems, a bootkit may instead create or modify files in the EFI system partition (ESP). The ESP is a partition on data storage used by devices containing UEFI that allows the system to boot the OS and other utilities used by the system. An adversary can use the newly created or patched files in the ESP to run malicious kernel code.

## Parent Technique
- Pre-OS Boot (T1542)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT41 (G0096)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT28 (G0007)

## Mitigations
- Boot Integrity (M1046)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Perform integrity checking on MBR and VBR. Take snapshots of MBR and VBR and compare against known good samples. Report changes to MBR and VBR as they occur for indicators of suspicious activity and further analysis.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
On UEFI boot systems, monitor for newly created files in the ESP. 

#### Drive: Drive Modification (DS0016): 
On BIOS boot systems, monitor for changes to MBR and VBR as they occur for indicators for suspicious activity and further analysis. Take snapshots of MBR and VBR and compare against known good samples.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
On UEFI boot systems, monitor for newly modified files in the ESP,  especially ones whose modification times do not match other files or files in `C:\Windows\Boot\EFI`.

