# Container Service (T1543.005)

## Description
Adversaries may create or modify container or container cluster management tools that run as daemons, agents, or services on individual hosts. These include software for creating and managing individual containers, such as Docker and Podman, as well as container cluster node-level agents such as kubelet. By modifying these services, an adversary may be able to achieve persistence or escalate their privileges on a host.

For example, by using the `docker run` or `podman run` command with the `restart=always` directive, a container can be configured to persistently restart on the host. A user with access to the (rootful) docker command may also be able to escalate their privileges on the host.

In Kubernetes environments, DaemonSets allow an adversary to persistently Deploy Container (T1610)s on all nodes, including ones added later to the cluster. Pods can also be deployed to specific nodes using the `nodeSelector` or `nodeName` fields in the pod spec.

Note that containers can also be configured to run as Systemd Service (T1543.002)s.

## Parent Technique
- Create or Modify System Process (T1543)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for suspicious uses of the docker or podman command, such as attempts to mount the root filesystem of the host. 

#### Container: Container Creation (DS0032): 
Monitor for newly constructed containers that repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence or privilege escalation.  

