# Time Providers (T1547.003)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse time providers to execute DLLs when the system boots. The Windows Time service (W32Time) enables time synchronization across and within domains. W32Time time providers are responsible for retrieving time stamps from hardware/network resources and outputting these values to other network clients.

Time providers are implemented as dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are registered in the subkeys of `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\W32Time\TimeProviders\`. The time provider manager, directed by the service control manager, loads and starts time providers listed and enabled under this key at system startup and/or whenever parameters are changed.

Adversaries may abuse this architecture to establish persistence, specifically by creating a new arbitrarily named subkey  pointing to a malicious DLL in the `DllName` value. Administrator privileges are required for time provider registration, though execution will run in context of the Local Service account.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Baseline values and monitor/analyze activity related to modifying W32Time information in the Registry, including application programming interface (API) calls such as ```RegCreateKeyEx``` and ```RegSetValueEx``` as well as execution of the W32tm.exe utility. There is no restriction on the number of custom time providers registrations, though each may require a DLL payload written to disk.

The Sysinternals Autoruns tool may also be used to analyze auto-starting locations, including DLLs listed as time providers.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes, such as the W32tm.exe utility.  The Sysinternals Autoruns tool may also be used to analyze auto-starting locations, including DLLs listed as time providers. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse time providers to execute DLLs when the system boots.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys and/or values modifying W32Time information in the Registry.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
There is no restriction on the number of custom time providers registrations, though each may require a DLL payload written to disk. 

