# XDG Autostart Entries (T1547.013)

## Description
Adversaries may add or modify XDG Autostart Entries to execute malicious programs or commands when a user’s desktop environment is loaded at login. XDG Autostart entries are available for any XDG-compliant Linux system. XDG Autostart entries use Desktop Entry files (`.desktop`) to configure the user’s desktop environment upon user login. These configuration files determine what applications launch upon user login, define associated applications to open specific file types, and define applications used to open removable media.

Adversaries may abuse this feature to establish persistence by adding a path to a malicious binary or command to the `Exec` directive in the `.desktop` configuration file. When the user’s desktop environment is loaded at user login, the `.desktop` files located in the XDG Autostart directories are automatically executed. System-wide Autostart entries are located in the `/etc/xdg/autostart` directory while the user entries are located in the `~/.config/autostart` directory.

Adversaries may combine this technique with Masquerading (T1036) to blend malicious Autostart entries with legitimate programs.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)

## Detection
Malicious XDG autostart entries may be detected by auditing file creation and modification events within the ```/etc/xdg/autostart``` and ```~/.config/autostart``` directories. Depending on individual configurations, defenders may need to query the environment variables ```$XDG_CONFIG_HOME``` or ```$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS``` to determine the paths of Autostart entries. Autostart entry files not associated with legitimate packages may be considered suspicious. Suspicious entries can also be identified by comparing entries to a trusted system baseline.
 
Suspicious processes or scripts spawned in this manner will have a parent process of the desktop component implementing the XDG specification and will execute as the logged on user.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Malicious XDG autostart entries may be detected by auditing file creation events within the ```/etc/xdg/autostart``` and ```~/.config/autostart``` directories. Depending on individual configurations, defenders may need to query the environment variables ```$XDG_CONFIG_HOME``` or ```$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS``` to determine the paths of Autostart entries. Autostart entry files not associated with legitimate packages may be considered suspicious. Suspicious entries can also be identified by comparing entries to a trusted system baseline.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may modify XDG autostart entries to execute programs or commands during system boot.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may modify XDG autostart entries to execute programs or commands during system boot.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Malicious XDG autostart entries may be detected by auditing file modification events within the ```/etc/xdg/autostart``` and ```~/.config/autostart``` directories. Depending on individual configurations, defenders may need to query the environment variables ```$XDG_CONFIG_HOME``` or ```$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS``` to determine the paths of Autostart entries. Autostart entry files not associated with legitimate packages may be considered suspicious. Suspicious entries can also be identified by comparing entries to a trusted system baseline.

