# Windows Management Instrumentation Event Subscription (T1546.003)

## Description
Adversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered by a Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) event subscription. WMI can be used to install event filters, providers, consumers, and bindings that execute code when a defined event occurs. Examples of events that may be subscribed to are the wall clock time, user login, or the computer's uptime.

Adversaries may use the capabilities of WMI to subscribe to an event and execute arbitrary code when that event occurs, providing persistence on a system. Adversaries may also compile WMI scripts – using `mofcomp.exe`  –into Windows Management Object (MOF) files (.mof extension) that can be used to create a malicious subscription.

WMI subscription execution is proxied by the WMI Provider Host process (WmiPrvSe.exe) and thus may result in elevated SYSTEM privileges.

## Parent Technique
- Event Triggered Execution (T1546)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- APT29 (G0016)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Turla (G0010)
- Metador (G1013)
- APT33 (G0064)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Rancor (G0075)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)

## Detection
Monitor WMI event subscription entries, comparing current WMI event subscriptions to known good subscriptions for each host. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect WMI changes that could be attempts at persistence. Monitor for the creation of new WMI ```EventFilter```, ```EventConsumer```, and ```FilterToConsumerBinding``` events. Event ID 5861 is logged on Windows 10 systems when new ```EventFilterToConsumerBinding``` events are created.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments that can be used to register WMI persistence, such as the ``` Register-WmiEvent``` PowerShell (T1059.001) cmdlet, as well as those that result from the execution of subscriptions (i.e. spawning from the WmiPrvSe.exe WMI Provider Host process).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for MOF files outside of the ```HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\WBEM``` folder, as almost all legitimate MOF files will be stored in the WBEM folder. Adversaries may create modified MOF files to be complied into WMI event subscriptions. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that result from the execution of subscriptions (i.e. spawning from the WmiPrvSe.exe WMI Provider Host process).

Note: Windows Event ID 4688 (A new process has been created) and Sysmon Event ID 1 (Process creation) can be used to alert on processes created by WMI event subscription triggers by filtering on events with a parent process name of ```WmiPrvSe.exe```.

Monitor for execution of mofcomp.exe as a child of a suspicious shell or script running utility – ```\powershell.exe``` or ```\cmd.exe``` – or by having a suspicious path in the command line, such as ```%temp%```. Adversaries may compile modified MOF files using mofcomp.exe to create malicious WMI event subscriptions. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that can be used to register WMI persistence, such as the ``` Register-WmiEvent``` PowerShell (T1059.001) cmdlet 

#### WMI: WMI Creation (DS0005): 
Monitor WMI event subscription entries, comparing current WMI event subscriptions to known good subscriptions for each host. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect WMI changes that could be attempts at persistence.   Monitor for the creation of new WMI ```EventFilter```, ```EventConsumer```, and ```FilterToConsumerBinding``` events. Event ID 5861 is logged on Windows 10 systems when new ```EventFilterToConsumerBinding``` events are created.

