# Winlogon Helper DLL (T1547.004)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse features of Winlogon to execute DLLs and/or executables when a user logs in. Winlogon.exe is a Windows component responsible for actions at logon/logoff as well as the secure attention sequence (SAS) triggered by Ctrl-Alt-Delete. Registry entries in ```HKLM\Software[\\Wow6432Node\\]\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\``` and ```HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\``` are used to manage additional helper programs and functionalities that support Winlogon. 

Malicious modifications to these Registry keys may cause Winlogon to load and execute malicious DLLs and/or executables. Specifically, the following subkeys have been known to be possibly vulnerable to abuse: 

* Winlogon\Notify - points to notification package DLLs that handle Winlogon events
* Winlogon\Userinit - points to userinit.exe, the user initialization program executed when a user logs on
* Winlogon\Shell - points to explorer.exe, the system shell executed when a user logs on

Adversaries may take advantage of these features to repeatedly execute malicious code and establish persistence.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Turla (G0010)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor for changes to Registry entries associated with Winlogon that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current Winlogon helper values.   New DLLs written to System32 that do not correlate with known good software or patching may also be suspicious.

Look for abnormal process behavior that may be due to a process loading a malicious DLL. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse features of Winlogon to execute DLLs and/or executables when a user logs in.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
New DLLs written to System32 that do not correlate with known good software or patching may also be suspicious. Look for abnormal process behavior that may be due to a process loading a malicious DLL. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for the execution of processes that may abuse features of Winlogon to execute DLLs and/or executables when a user logs in.

Analytic 1 - Modification of the Winlogon Registry Key

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") | where
  (CommandLine LIKE "%Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon%" AND (CommandLine LIKE "%Userinit%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%Shell%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%Notify%"))
  AND
  (CommandLine LIKE "%reg%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%add%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%/d%" OR
  CommandLine LIKE "%Set-ItemProperty%" OR CommandLine LIKE "%New-ItemProperty%" CommandLine LIKE "%-value%")```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes to Registry entries associated with Winlogon that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be used to detect system changes that could be attempts at persistence, including listing current Winlogon helper values. 

Analytic 1 - Registry Edit with Modification of Userinit, Shell or Notify

```source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4657" (ObjectValueName="Userinit" OR ObjectValueName="Shell" OR ObjectValueName="Notify") OR source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="13" (TargetObject="*Userinit" OR TargetObject="*Shell" OR TargetObject="*Notify")```

