# Change Default File Association (T1546.001)

## Description
Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by a file type association. When a file is opened, the default program used to open the file (also called the file association or handler) is checked. File association selections are stored in the Windows Registry and can be edited by users, administrators, or programs that have Registry access or by administrators using the built-in assoc utility. Applications can modify the file association for a given file extension to call an arbitrary program when a file with the given extension is opened.

System file associations are listed under ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.[extension]```, for example ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\.txt```. The entries point to a handler for that extension located at ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\[handler]```. The various commands are then listed as subkeys underneath the shell key at ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\\[handler]\shell\\[action]\command```. For example: 

* ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\txtfile\shell\open\command```
* ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\txtfile\shell\print\command```
* ```HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\txtfile\shell\printto\command```

The values of the keys listed are commands that are executed when the handler opens the file extension. Adversaries can modify these values to continually execute arbitrary commands.

## Parent Technique
- Event Triggered Execution (T1546)

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Kimsuky (G0094)

## Detection
Collect and analyze changes to Registry keys that associate file extensions to default applications for execution and correlate with unknown process launch activity or unusual file types for that process.

User file association preferences are stored under ``` [HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\FileExts``` and override associations configured under ```[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT]```. Changes to a user's preference will occur under this entry's subkeys.

Also look for abnormal process call trees for execution of other commands that could relate to Discovery actions or other techniques.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by a file type association.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by a file type association.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Collect and analyze changes to Registry keys that associate file extensions to default applications for execution and correlate with unknown process launch activity or unusual file types for that process. User file association preferences are stored under ``` [HKEY_CURRENT_USER]\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Explorer\FileExts``` and override associations configured under ```[HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT]```. Changes to a user's preference will occur under this entry's subkeys.

