# Pre-OS Boot (T1542)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse Pre-OS Boot mechanisms as a way to establish persistence on a system. During the booting process of a computer, firmware and various startup services are loaded before the operating system. These programs control flow of execution before the operating system takes control.

Adversaries may overwrite data in boot drivers or firmware such as BIOS (Basic Input/Output System) and The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) to persist on systems at a layer below the operating system. This can be particularly difficult to detect as malware at this level will not be detected by host software-based defenses.

## Sub-techniques
- System Firmware (T1542.001)
- Bootkit (T1542.003)
- TFTP Boot (T1542.005)
- Component Firmware (T1542.002)
- ROMMONkit (T1542.004)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Audit (M1047)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Boot Integrity (M1046)

## Detection
Perform integrity checking on pre-OS boot mechanisms that can be manipulated for malicious purposes. Take snapshots of boot records and firmware and compare against known good images. Log changes to boot records, BIOS, and EFI, which can be performed by API calls, and compare against known good behavior and patching.

Disk check, forensic utilities, and data from device drivers (i.e. processes and API calls) may reveal anomalies that warrant deeper investigation.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Drive: Drive Modification (DS0016): 
Monitor for changes to MBR and VBR as they occur for indicators for suspicious activity and further analysis. Take snapshots of MBR and VBR and compare against known good samples.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
On UEFI boot systems, monitor for newly modified files in the ESP,  especially ones whose modification times do not match other files or files in `C:\Windows\Boot\EFI`.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network device configuration and system image against a known-good version to discover unauthorized changes to system boot, startup configuration, or the running OS. The same process can be accomplished through a comparison of the run-time memory, though this is non-trivial and may require assistance from the vendor.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
On UEFI boot systems, monitor for newly created files in the ESP. 

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may abuse Pre-OS Boot mechanisms as a way to establish persistence on a system. Disk check, forensic utilities, and data from device drivers (i.e. API calls) may reveal anomalies that warrant deeper investigation. 

#### Driver: Driver Metadata (DS0027): 
Disk check, forensic utilities, and data from device drivers (i.e. processes and API calls) may reveal anomalies that warrant deeper investigation

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments in command history in either the console or as part of the running memory to determine if unauthorized or suspicious commands were used to modify device configuration.

#### Firmware: Firmware Modification (DS0001): 
Monitor for changes made on pre-OS boot mechanisms that can be manipulated for malicious purposes. Take snapshots of boot records and firmware and compare against known good images. Log changes to boot records, BIOS, and EFI

