# Shortcut Modification (T1547.009)

## Description
Adversaries may create or modify shortcuts that can execute a program during system boot or user login. Shortcuts or symbolic links are used to reference other files or programs that will be opened or executed when the shortcut is clicked or executed by a system startup process.

Adversaries may abuse shortcuts in the startup folder to execute their tools and achieve persistence. Although often used as payloads in an infection chain (e.g. Spearphishing Attachment (T1566.001)), adversaries may also create a new shortcut as a means of indirection, while also abusing Masquerading (T1036) to make the malicious shortcut appear as a legitimate program. Adversaries can also edit the target path or entirely replace an existing shortcut so their malware will be executed instead of the intended legitimate program.

Shortcuts can also be abused to establish persistence by implementing other methods. For example, LNK browser extensions may be modified (e.g. Browser Extensions (T1176.001)) to persistently launch malware.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- APT39 (G0087)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Since a shortcut's target path likely will not change, modifications to shortcut files that do not correlate with known software changes, patches, removal, etc., may be suspicious. Analysis should attempt to relate shortcut file change or creation events to other potentially suspicious events based on known adversary behavior such as process launches of unknown executables that make network connections.

Monitor for LNK files created with a Zone Identifier value greater than 1, which may indicate that the LNK file originated from outside of the network.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Since a shortcut's target path likely will not change, modifications to shortcut files that do not correlate with known software changes, patches, removal, etc., may be suspicious. Analysis should attempt to relate shortcut file change events to other potentially suspicious events based on known adversary behavior such as process launches of unknown executables that make network connections.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may create or edit shortcuts to run a program during system boot or user login.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for LNK files created with a Zone Identifier value greater than 1, which may indicate that the LNK file originated from outside of the network. Analysis should attempt to relate shortcut creation events to other potentially suspicious events based on known adversary behavior such as process launches of unknown executables that make network connections.

