# Kernel Modules and Extensions (T1547.006)

## Description
Adversaries may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot. Loadable Kernel Modules (LKMs) are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the kernel upon demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel without the need to reboot the system. For example, one type of module is the device driver, which allows the kernel to access hardware connected to the system. 

When used maliciously, LKMs can be a type of kernel-mode Rootkit (T1014) that run with the highest operating system privilege (Ring 0). Common features of LKM based rootkits include: hiding itself, selective hiding of files, processes and network activity, as well as log tampering, providing authenticated backdoors, and enabling root access to non-privileged users.

Kernel extensions, also called kext, are used in macOS to load functionality onto a system similar to LKMs for Linux. Since the kernel is responsible for enforcing security and the kernel extensions run as apart of the kernel, kexts are not governed by macOS security policies. Kexts are loaded and unloaded through ```kextload``` and ```kextunload``` commands. Kexts need to be signed with a developer ID that is granted privileges by Apple allowing it to sign Kernel extensions. Developers without these privileges may still sign kexts but they will not load unless SIP is disabled. If SIP is enabled, the kext signature is verified before being added to the AuxKC.

Since macOS Catalina 10.15, kernel extensions have been deprecated in favor of System Extensions. However, kexts are still allowed as "Legacy System Extensions" since there is no System Extension for Kernel Programming Interfaces.

Adversaries can use LKMs and kexts to conduct Persistence (TA0003) and/or Privilege Escalation (TA0004) on a system. Examples have been found in the wild, and there are some relevant open source projects as well.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Loading, unloading, and manipulating modules on Linux systems can be detected by monitoring for the following commands: ```modprobe```, ```insmod```, ```lsmod```, ```rmmod```, or ```modinfo```  LKMs are typically loaded into ```/lib/modules``` and have had the extension .ko ("kernel object") since version 2.6 of the Linux kernel. 

Adversaries may run commands on the target system before loading a malicious module in order to ensure that it is properly compiled.  Adversaries may also execute commands to identify the exact version of the running Linux kernel and/or download multiple versions of the same .ko (kernel object) files to use the one appropriate for the running system. Many LKMs require Linux headers (specific to the target kernel) in order to compile properly. These are typically obtained through the operating systems package manager and installed like a normal package. On Ubuntu and Debian based systems this can be accomplished by running: ```apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r)``` On RHEL and CentOS based systems this can be accomplished by running: ```yum install kernel-devel-$(uname -r)```

On macOS, monitor for execution of ```kextload``` commands and user installed kernel extensions performing abnormal and/or potentially malicious activity (such as creating network connections). Monitor for new rows added in the ```kext_policy``` table. KextPolicy stores a list of user approved (non Apple) kernel extensions and a partial history of loaded kernel modules in a SQLite database, ```/var/db/SystemPolicyConfiguration/KextPolicy```.


### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Loading, unloading, and manipulating modules on Linux systems can be detected by monitoring for the following commands: ```modprobe```, ```insmod```, ```lsmod```, ```rmmod```, or ```modinfo```  Adversaries may run commands on the target system before loading a malicious module in order to ensure that it is properly compiled.  Adversaries may also execute commands to identify the exact version of the running Linux kernel and/or download multiple versions of the same .ko (kernel object) files to use the one appropriate for the running system. Many LKMs require Linux headers (specific to the target kernel) in order to compile properly. These are typically obtained through the operating systems package manager and installed like a normal package.

On macOS, monitor for execution of ```kextload``` commands and user installed kernel extensions performing abnormal and/or potentially malicious activity (such as creating network connections). Monitor for new rows added in the ```kext_policy``` table. KextPolicy stores a list of user approved (non Apple) kernel extensions and a partial history of loaded kernel modules in a SQLite database, ```/var/db/SystemPolicyConfiguration/KextPolicy```.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot.

#### Kernel: Kernel Module Load (DS0008): 
LKMs are typically loaded into ```/lib/modules``` and have had the extension .ko ("kernel object") since version 2.6 of the Linux kernel. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly created processes that may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot.

