# Print Processors (T1547.012)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation. Print processors are DLLs that are loaded by the print spooler service, `spoolsv.exe`, during boot.

Adversaries may abuse the print spooler service by adding print processors that load malicious DLLs at startup. A print processor can be installed through the ```AddPrintProcessor``` API call with an account that has ```SeLoadDriverPrivilege``` enabled. Alternatively, a print processor can be registered to the print spooler service by adding the ```HKLM\SYSTEM\\[CurrentControlSet or ControlSet001]\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture: e.g., Windows x64]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\Driver``` Registry key that points to the DLL.

For the malicious print processor to be correctly installed, the payload must be located in the dedicated system print-processor directory, that can be found with the ```GetPrintProcessorDirectory``` API call, or referenced via a relative path from this directory. After the print processors are installed, the print spooler service, which starts during boot, must be restarted in order for them to run.

The print spooler service runs under SYSTEM level permissions, therefore print processors installed by an adversary may run under elevated privileges.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- Earth Lusca (G1006)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor process API calls to ```AddPrintProcessor``` and ```GetPrintProcessorDirectory```. New print processor DLLs are written to the print processor directory. Also monitor Registry writes to ```HKLM\SYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\\Driver``` or ```HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\Driver``` as they pertain to print processor installations.

Monitor for abnormal DLLs that are loaded by spoolsv.exe. Print processors that do not correlate with known good software or patching may be suspicious.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor Registry writes to ```HKLM\SYSTEM\ControlSet001\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\\Driver``` or ```HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Environments\\[Windows architecture]\Print Processors\\[user defined]\Driver``` as they pertain to print processor installations.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity that may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for persistence and/or privilege escalation.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for abnormal DLLs that are loaded by `spoolsv.exe`. Print processors that do not correlate with known good software or patching may be suspicious.  New print processor DLLs are written to the print processor directory.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor process API calls to ```AddPrintProcessor``` and ```GetPrintProcessorDirectory```.

