# LSASS Driver (T1547.008)

## Description
Adversaries may modify or add LSASS drivers to obtain persistence on compromised systems. The Windows security subsystem is a set of components that manage and enforce the security policy for a computer or domain. The Local Security Authority (LSA) is the main component responsible for local security policy and user authentication. The LSA includes multiple dynamic link libraries (DLLs) associated with various other security functions, all of which run in the context of the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) lsass.exe process.

Adversaries may target LSASS drivers to obtain persistence. By either replacing or adding illegitimate drivers (e.g., Hijack Execution Flow (T1574)), an adversary can use LSA operations to continuously execute malicious payloads.

## Parent Technique
- Boot or Logon Autostart Execution (T1547)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Process Integrity (M1025)
- Credential Access Protection (M1043)
- Restrict Library Loading (M1044)

## Detection
With LSA Protection enabled, monitor the event logs (Events 3033 and 3063) for failed attempts to load LSA plug-ins and drivers.  Also monitor DLL load operations in lsass.exe. 

Utilize the Sysinternals Autoruns/Autorunsc utility  to examine loaded drivers associated with the LSA. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Also monitor DLL load operations in lsass.exe. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor newly constructed files that may modify or add LSASS drivers to obtain persistence on compromised systems.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
With LSA Protection enabled, monitor the event logs (Events 3033 and 3063) for failed attempts to load LSA plug-ins and drivers.  Utilize the Sysinternals Autoruns/Autorunsc utility  to examine loaded drivers associated with the LSA.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may modify or add LSASS drivers to obtain persistence on compromised systems.

