# Keychain (T1555.001)

## Description
Adversaries may acquire credentials from Keychain. Keychain (or Keychain Services) is the macOS credential management system that stores account names, passwords, private keys, certificates, sensitive application data, payment data, and secure notes. There are three types of Keychains: Login Keychain, System Keychain, and Local Items (iCloud) Keychain. The default Keychain is the Login Keychain, which stores user passwords and information. The System Keychain stores items accessed by the operating system, such as items shared among users on a host. The Local Items (iCloud) Keychain is used for items synced with Apple’s iCloud service. 

Keychains can be viewed and edited through the Keychain Access application or using the command-line utility ```security```. Keychain files are located in ```~/Library/Keychains/```, ```/Library/Keychains/```, and ```/Network/Library/Keychains/```.

Adversaries may gather user credentials from Keychain storage/memory. For example, the command ```security dump-keychain –d``` will dump all Login Keychain credentials from ```~/Library/Keychains/login.keychain-db```. Adversaries may also directly read Login Keychain credentials from the ```~/Library/Keychains/login.keychain``` file. Both methods require a password, where the default password for the Login Keychain is the current user’s password to login to the macOS host.  

## Parent Technique
- Credentials from Password Stores (T1555)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Unlocking the keychain and using passwords from it is a very common process, so there is likely to be a lot of noise in any detection technique. Monitoring of system calls to the keychain can help determine if there is a suspicious process trying to access it.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands with arguments that may be used to collect Keychain data from a system to acquire credentials.

Analytic 1 - Commands indicating credential searches in Keychain.

``` index=security sourcetype="macos_secure"
(event_type="process" AND (command IN ("security dump-keychain", "security find-generic-password", "security find-internet-password", "security unlock-keychain") OR 
 command IN ("*security* dump-keychain*", "*security* find-generic-password*", "*security* find-internet-password*", "*security* unlock-keychain*")))```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes spawned by command line utilities to manipulate keychains directly, such as ```security```, combined with arguments to collect passwords, such as ```dump-keychain -d```.

Analytic 1 - New processes with parameters indicating attempts to manipulate keychains.

```index=security sourcetype="macos_secure" event_type="process"
(CommandLine IN ("*security dump-keychain*", "*security find-generic-password*", "*security find-internet-password*", "*security unlock-keychain*", "*security delete-keychain*", "*security set-keychain-settings*", "*security add-internet-password*", "*security add-generic-password*", "*security import*", "*security export*")) ```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for Keychain Services API calls, specifically legacy extensions such as ```SecKeychainFindInternetPassword```, that may collect Keychain data from a system to acquire credentials.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Keychain API calls.

```index=security sourcetype="macos_secure"
(event_type="api_call" AND api IN ("SecKeychainCopySearchList", "SecKeychainFindGenericPassword", "SecKeychainFindInternetPassword", "SecKeychainOpen", "SecKeychainCopyDefault", "SecItemCopyMatching")) ```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for Keychain files being accessed that may be related to malicious credential collection.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to Keychain files.

``` index=security sourcetype="macos_secure"
(event_type="file_open" AND file_path IN ("~/Library/Keychains/*", "/Library/Keychains/*", "/Network/Library/Keychains/*"))```

