# Credentials from Web Browsers (T1555.003)

## Description
Adversaries may acquire credentials from web browsers by reading files specific to the target browser. Web browsers commonly save credentials such as website usernames and passwords so that they do not need to be entered manually in the future. Web browsers typically store the credentials in an encrypted format within a credential store; however, methods exist to extract plaintext credentials from web browsers.

For example, on Windows systems, encrypted credentials may be obtained from Google Chrome by reading a database file, ```AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default\Login Data``` and executing a SQL query: ```SELECT action_url, username_value, password_value FROM logins;```. The plaintext password can then be obtained by passing the encrypted credentials to the Windows API function ```CryptUnprotectData```, which uses the victim’s cached logon credentials as the decryption key.
 
Adversaries have executed similar procedures for common web browsers such as FireFox, Safari, Edge, etc. Windows stores Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge credentials in Credential Lockers managed by the Windows Credential Manager (T1555.004).

Adversaries may also acquire credentials by searching web browser process memory for patterns that commonly match credentials.

After acquiring credentials from web browsers, adversaries may attempt to recycle the credentials across different systems and/or accounts in order to expand access. This can result in significantly furthering an adversary's objective in cases where credentials gained from web browsers overlap with privileged accounts (e.g. domain administrator).

## Parent Technique
- Credentials from Password Stores (T1555)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Patchwork (G0040)
- APT41 (G0096)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Malteiro (G1026)
- APT3 (G0022)
- APT33 (G0064)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- Leafminer (G0077)
- APT37 (G0067)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Molerats (G0021)
- Ajax Security Team (G0130)
- Inception (G0100)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- OilRig (G0049)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- APT42 (G1044)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- User Training (M1017)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Identify web browser files that contain credentials such as Google Chrome’s Login Data database file: ```AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default\Login Data```. Monitor file read events of web browser files that contain credentials, especially when the reading process is unrelated to the subject web browser. Monitor process execution logs to include PowerShell Transcription focusing on those that perform a combination of behaviors including reading web browser process memory, utilizing regular expressions, and those that contain numerous keywords for common web applications (Gmail, Twitter, Office365, etc.).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may acquire credentials from web browsers by reading files specific to the target browser.

Analytic 1 - Commands indicating credential searches in web browsers.

``` index=security sourcetype IN ("WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational", "linux_secure", "macos_secure") event_type="process"
(CommandLine IN ("*sqlite3* *logins*", "*CryptUnprotectData*", "*security find-internet-password*", "*sqlcipher* *logins*", "*strings* *Login Data*", "*cat* *Login Data*", "*cat* *logins.json*", "*sqlite3* *signons.sqlite*"))```

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor process execution logs to include PowerShell Transcription focusing on those that perform a combination of behaviors including reading web browser process memory, utilizing regular expressions, and those that contain numerous keywords for common web applications (Gmail, Twitter, Office365, etc.).

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized process access indicating credential searches in web browsers.

```index=security sourcetype IN ("WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational", "linux_secure", "macos_secure") event_type="process"
(CommandLine IN ("*sqlite3* *logins*", "*sqlcipher* *logins*", "*db-browser* *Login Data*", "*db-browser* *logins.json*", "*CryptUnprotectData*", "*security find-internet-password*", "*security dump-keychain*", "*strings* *Login Data*", "*cat* *Login Data*", "*cat* *logins.json*", "*sqlite3* *signons.sqlite*")) ```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Identify web browser files that contain credentials such as Google Chrome’s Login Data database file: ```AppData\Local\Google\Chrome\User Data\Default\Login Data```. Monitor file read events of web browser files that contain credentials, especially when the reading process is unrelated to the subject web browser.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to web browser credential files.

```index=security sourcetype IN ("WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational", "linux_secure", "macos_secure") event_type="file_open"
((file_path IN ("*\\AppData\\Local\\Google\\Chrome\\User Data\\Default\\Login Data", "*\\AppData\\Local\\Microsoft\\Edge\\User Data\\Default\\Login Data", "*\\AppData\\Roaming\\Mozilla\\Firefox\\Profiles\\*\\logins.json") AND Platform="Windows") OR
 (file_path IN ("/home/*/.mozilla/firefox/*/logins.json", "/home/*/.config/google-chrome/Default/Login Data") AND Platform="Linux") OR
 (file_path IN ("/Users/*/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/Default/Login Data", "/Users/*/Library/Application Support/Firefox/Profiles/*/logins.json") AND Platform="macOS")) ```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may acquire credentials from web browsers by reading files specific to the target browser.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious API calls related to web browser credential access.

``` index=security sourcetype IN ("WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational", "linux_secure", "macos_secure") event_type="api_call"
(api IN ("CryptUnprotectData", "NSS_Init", "PK11SDR_Decrypt", "SecItemCopyMatching", "SecItemAdd", "SecItemUpdate", "SecItemDelete"))```

