# Steal or Forge Kerberos Tickets (T1558)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to subvert Kerberos authentication by stealing or forging Kerberos tickets to enable Pass the Ticket (T1550.003). Kerberos is an authentication protocol widely used in modern Windows domain environments. In Kerberos environments, referred to as “realms”, there are three basic participants: client, service, and Key Distribution Center (KDC). Clients request access to a service and through the exchange of Kerberos tickets, originating from KDC, they are granted access after having successfully authenticated. The KDC is responsible for both authentication and ticket granting.  Adversaries may attempt to abuse Kerberos by stealing tickets or forging tickets to enable unauthorized access.

On Windows, the built-in ```klist``` utility can be used to list and analyze cached Kerberos tickets.


## Sub-techniques
- Ccache Files (T1558.005)
- AS-REP Roasting (T1558.004)
- Golden Ticket (T1558.001)
- Silver Ticket (T1558.002)
- Kerberoasting (T1558.003)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Akira (G1024)

## Mitigations
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- Credential Access Protection (M1043)
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Audit (M1047)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
Monitor for anomalous Kerberos activity, such as malformed or blank fields in Windows logon/logoff events (Event ID 4624, 4672, 4634), RC4 encryption within ticket granting tickets (TGTs), and ticket granting service (TGS) requests without preceding TGT requests.

Monitor the lifetime of TGT tickets for values that differ from the default domain duration.

Monitor for indications of Pass the Ticket (T1550.003) being used to move laterally. 

Enable Audit Kerberos Service Ticket Operations to log Kerberos TGS service ticket requests. Particularly investigate irregular patterns of activity (ex: accounts making numerous requests, Event ID 4769, within a small time frame, especially if they also request RC4 encryption [Type 0x17]). 

Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with lsass.exe. Common credential dumpers such as Mimikatz access the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) process by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details, including Kerberos tickets, are stored.

Monitor for unusual processes accessing ```secrets.ldb``` and ```.secrets.mkey``` located in ```/var/lib/sss/secrets/```.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to subvert Kerberos authentication by stealing or forging Kerberos tickets to enable Pass the Ticket (T1550.003).

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Metadata (DS0028): 
Enable Audit Kerberos Service Ticket Operations to log Kerberos TGS service ticket requests. Particularly investigate irregular patterns of activity (ex: accounts making numerous requests, Event ID 4769, within a small time frame, especially if they also request RC4 encryption [Type 0x17]). 

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Credential Request (DS0026): 
Monitor for anomalous Kerberos activity, such as malformed or blank fields in Windows logon/logoff events (Event ID 4624, 4672, 4634), RC4 encryption within ticket granting tickets (TGTs), and ticket granting service (TGS) requests without preceding TGT requests.Monitor the lifetime of TGT tickets for values that differ from the default domain duration. Monitor for indications of Pass the Ticket (T1550.003) being used to move laterally.

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with lsass.exe. Common credential dumpers such as  Mimikatz access the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) process by opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in memory where credential details, including Kerberos tickets, are stored.

