# Hybrid Identity (T1556.007)

## Description
Adversaries may patch, modify, or otherwise backdoor cloud authentication processes that are tied to on-premises user identities in order to bypass typical authentication mechanisms, access credentials, and enable persistent access to accounts.  

Many organizations maintain hybrid user and device identities that are shared between on-premises and cloud-based environments. These can be maintained in a number of ways. For example, Microsoft Entra ID includes three options for synchronizing identities between Active Directory and Entra ID:

* Password Hash Synchronization (PHS), in which a privileged on-premises account synchronizes user password hashes between Active Directory and Entra ID, allowing authentication to Entra ID to take place entirely in the cloud 
* Pass Through Authentication (PTA), in which Entra ID authentication attempts are forwarded to an on-premises PTA agent, which validates the credentials against Active Directory 
* Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS), in which a trust relationship is established between Active Directory and Entra ID 

AD FS can also be used with other SaaS and cloud platforms such as AWS and GCP, which will hand off the authentication process to AD FS and receive a token containing the hybrid users’ identity and privileges. 

By modifying authentication processes tied to hybrid identities, an adversary may be able to establish persistent privileged access to cloud resources. For example, adversaries who compromise an on-premises server running a PTA agent may inject a malicious DLL into the `AzureADConnectAuthenticationAgentService` process that authorizes all attempts to authenticate to Entra ID, as well as records user credentials. In environments using AD FS, an adversary may edit the `Microsoft.IdentityServer.Servicehost` configuration file to load a malicious DLL that generates authentication tokens for any user with any set of claims, thereby bypassing multi-factor authentication and defined AD FS policies.

In some cases, adversaries may be able to modify the hybrid identity authentication process from the cloud. For example, adversaries who compromise a Global Administrator account in an Entra ID tenant may be able to register a new PTA agent via the web console, similarly allowing them to harvest credentials and log into the Entra ID environment as any user.

## Parent Technique
- Modify Authentication Process (T1556)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Audit (M1047)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for suspicious modification of files associated with hybrid identity authentication processes, such as configuration files. Monitor for access to certificates and cryptographic keys material.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor the hybrid identity solution in use for the loading of unauthorized DLLs. For example, monitor all PTA agent servers for the creation of DLLs as well as the loading of DLLs into the `AzureADConnectAuthenticationAgentService` process. If AD FS is in use, monitor the AD FS server for the creation of DLLs as well as the loading of unrecognized or unsigned DLLs into the `Microsoft.IdentityServer.Servicehost` application.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Enable security auditing to collect logs from hybrid identity solutions. For example, monitor sign-ins to the Entra ID Application Proxy Connector, which are typically generated only when a new PTA Agent is added.  If AD FS is in use, review the logs for event ID 501, which specifies all EKU attributes on a claim, and raise alerts on any values that are not configured in your environment.

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for discrepancies in authentication to cloud services, such as PTA sign-ins recorded in Entra ID that lack corresponding events in AD.

