# Pass the Ticket (T1550.003)

## Description
Adversaries may “pass the ticket” using stolen Kerberos tickets to move laterally within an environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the ticket (PtT) is a method of authenticating to a system using Kerberos tickets without having access to an account's password. Kerberos authentication can be used as the first step to lateral movement to a remote system.

When preforming PtT, valid Kerberos tickets for Valid Accounts (T1078) are captured by OS Credential Dumping (T1003). A user's service tickets or ticket granting ticket (TGT) may be obtained, depending on the level of access. A service ticket allows for access to a particular resource, whereas a TGT can be used to request service tickets from the Ticket Granting Service (TGS) to access any resource the user has privileges to access.

A Silver Ticket (T1558.002) can be obtained for services that use Kerberos as an authentication mechanism and are used to generate tickets to access that particular resource and the system that hosts the resource (e.g., SharePoint).

A Golden Ticket (T1558.001) can be obtained for the domain using the Key Distribution Service account KRBTGT account NTLM hash, which enables generation of TGTs for any account in Active Directory.

Adversaries may also create a valid Kerberos ticket using other user information, such as stolen password hashes or AES keys. For example, "overpassing the hash" involves using a NTLM password hash to authenticate as a user (i.e. Pass the Hash (T1550.002)) while also using the password hash to create a valid Kerberos ticket.

## Parent Technique
- Use Alternate Authentication Material (T1550)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- APT29 (G0016)
- APT32 (G0050)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Password Policies (M1027)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)

## Detection
Audit all Kerberos authentication and credential use events and review for discrepancies. Unusual remote authentication events that correlate with other suspicious activity (such as writing and executing binaries) may indicate malicious activity.

Event ID 4769 is generated on the Domain Controller when using a golden ticket after the KRBTGT password has been reset twice, as mentioned in the mitigation section. The status code 0x1F indicates the action has failed due to "Integrity check on decrypted field failed" and indicates misuse by a previously invalidated golden ticket.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Audit all Kerberos authentication and credential use events and review for discrepancies. Unusual remote authentication events that correlate with other suspicious activity (such as writing and executing binaries) may indicate malicious activity.

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for newly constructed logon behavior that may “pass the ticket” using stolen Kerberos tickets to move laterally within an environment, bypassing normal system access controls.

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Credential Request (DS0026): 
Monitor requests of new ticket granting ticket or service tickets to a Domain Controller. Event ID 4769 is generated on the Domain Controller when using a golden ticket after the KRBTGT password has been reset twice, as mentioned in the mitigation section. The status code 0x1F indicates the action has failed due to "Integrity check on decrypted field failed" and indicates misuse by a previously invalidated golden ticket.

