# Credentials in Registry (T1552.002)

## Description
Adversaries may search the Registry on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials. The Windows Registry stores configuration information that can be used by the system or other programs. Adversaries may query the Registry looking for credentials and passwords that have been stored for use by other programs or services. Sometimes these credentials are used for automatic logons.

Example commands to find Registry keys related to password information: 

* Local Machine Hive: ```reg query HKLM /f password /t REG_SZ /s```
* Current User Hive: ```reg query HKCU /f password /t REG_SZ /s```

## Parent Technique
- Unsecured Credentials (T1552)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- APT32 (G0050)
- RedCurl (G1039)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Monitor processes for applications that can be used to query the Registry, such as Reg, and collect command parameters that may indicate credentials are being searched. Correlate activity with related suspicious behavior that may indicate an active intrusion to reduce false positives.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes for applications that can be used to query the Registry, such as Reg, and collect command parameters that may indicate credentials are being searched. Correlate activity with related suspicious behavior that may indicate an active intrusion to reduce false positives.

Note: Pseudocode Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The Analytic looks for command-line instances of searching the Windows Registry for insecurely stored credentials. This can be accomplished using the query functionality of the Reg system utility, by looking for keys and values that contain strings such as “password”. In addition, adversaries may use toolkits such as PowerSploit  in order to dump credentials from various applications such as IIS. Accordingly, this analytic looks for invocations of reg.exe in this capacity as well as that of several PowerSploit modules with similar functionality.

Analytic 1 - Credentials in Files & Registry

```(source="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688")  
CommandLine="*reg* query HKLM /f password /t REG_SZ /s*" OR
CommandLine="reg* query HKCU /f password /t REG_SZ /s" OR
CommandLine="*Get-UnattendedInstallFile*" OR
CommandLine="*Get-Webconfig" OR
CommandLine="*Get-ApplicationHost*" OR
CommandLine="*Get-SiteListPassword*" OR
CommandLine="*Get-CachedGPPPassword*" OR
CommandLine="*Get-RegistryAutoLogon*" ```

Analytic 2 - New processes with parameters indicating credential searches.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688 CommandLine="*reg query* /f password /t REG_SZ /s*") OR
(index=sysmon sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode=1 CommandLine="*reg query* /f password /t REG_SZ /s*")```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may search the Registry on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials.

Analytic 1 - Commands indicating credential searches in the registry.

``` (index=security sourcetype="powershell" EventCode=4104 ScriptBlockText="*reg query* /f password /t REG_SZ /s*")```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Access (DS0024): 
Monitor for unexpected windows registry key being accessed that may search the Registry on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to registry keys associated with credentials.

``` ndex=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Security-Auditing" EventCode=4663 ObjectType="Registry" (ObjectName="*password*" OR ObjectName="*credential*")
| eval AccessType=case(
    AccessMask="0x1", "Read",
    AccessMask="0x2", "Write",
    AccessMask="0x3", "Read/Write",
    AccessMask="0x4", "Delete",
    true(), "Unknown"
)```

