# Inter-Process Communication (T1559)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms for local code or command execution. IPC is typically used by processes to share data, communicate with each other, or synchronize execution. IPC is also commonly used to avoid situations such as deadlocks, which occurs when processes are stuck in a cyclic waiting pattern. 

Adversaries may abuse IPC to execute arbitrary code or commands. IPC mechanisms may differ depending on OS, but typically exists in a form accessible through programming languages/libraries or native interfaces such as Windows Dynamic Data Exchange (T1559.002) or Component Object Model (T1559.001). Linux environments support several different IPC mechanisms, two of which being sockets and pipes. Higher level execution mediums, such as those of Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)s, may also leverage underlying IPC mechanisms. Adversaries may also use Remote Services (T1021) such as Distributed Component Object Model (T1021.003) to facilitate remote IPC execution.

## Sub-techniques
- Dynamic Data Exchange (T1559.002)
- Component Object Model (T1559.001)
- XPC Services (T1559.003)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Application Isolation and Sandboxing (M1048)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Application Developer Guidance (M1013)

## Detection
Monitor for strings in files/commands, loaded DLLs/libraries, or spawned processes that are associated with abuse of IPC mechanisms.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for the loading of unusual modules or DLLs into processes. Specifically focus on modules that are not typically loaded or associated with IPC mechanisms.

Analytic 1 - Unrecognized DLLs.

``` sourcetype=Sysmon EventCode=7
| search module_path != "/usr/lib/*" OR module_path != "/windows/system32/*" OR module_path != "/lib/*"
| stats count by module_path process_name user
| where module_path IN ("suspicious_modules.dll", "unknown.so")```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor the creation of processes that are related to the abuse of IPC mechanisms, particularly those that communicate with higher-privileged services or perform suspicious operations.

Analytic 1 - Processes using IPC mechanisms.

```(( sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security EventCode=4688) OR (sourcetype=Sysmon EventCode=1))
| search parent_process IN ("XPCService", "com.apple.securityd") OR process_name IN ("cmd.exe", "bash", "osascript")```

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor processes that attempt to access other processes, especially if the access is unusual (such as low-privileged processes interacting with high-privileged processes like a VPN service).

Analytic 1 - Abnormal process access.

```sourcetype=Sysmon EventCode=10
| search access_type="IPC" AND process_privilege!="high"
| stats count by process_name target_process_name user
| where target_process_name IN ("VPNService", "Systemd", "svchost.exe") ```

