# Adversary-in-the-Middle (T1557)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to position themselves between two or more networked devices using an adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) technique to support follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniffing (T1040), Transmitted Data Manipulation (T1565.002), or replay attacks (Exploitation for Credential Access (T1212)). By abusing features of common networking protocols that can determine the flow of network traffic (e.g. ARP, DNS, LLMNR, etc.), adversaries may force a device to communicate through an adversary controlled system so they can collect information or perform additional actions.

For example, adversaries may manipulate victim DNS settings to enable other malicious activities such as preventing/redirecting users from accessing legitimate sites and/or pushing additional malware. Adversaries may also manipulate DNS and leverage their position in order to intercept user credentials, including access tokens (Steal Application Access Token (T1528)) and session cookies (Steal Web Session Cookie (T1539)). Downgrade Attack (T1562.010)s can also be used to establish an AiTM position, such as by negotiating a less secure, deprecated, or weaker version of communication protocol (SSL/TLS) or encryption algorithm.

Adversaries may also leverage the AiTM position to attempt to monitor and/or modify traffic, such as in Transmitted Data Manipulation (T1565.002). Adversaries can setup a position similar to AiTM to prevent traffic from flowing to the appropriate destination, potentially to Impair Defenses (T1562) and/or in support of a Network Denial of Service (T1498).

## Sub-techniques
- Evil Twin (T1557.004)
- DHCP Spoofing (T1557.003)
- LLMNR/NBT-NS Poisoning and SMB Relay (T1557.001)
- ARP Cache Poisoning (T1557.002)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)
- Collection (TA0009)

## Related Groups
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Sea Turtle (G1041)

## Mitigations
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- User Training (M1017)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)

## Detection
Monitor network traffic for anomalies associated with known AiTM behavior. Consider monitoring for modifications to system configuration files involved in shaping network traffic flow.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor application logs for changes to settings and other events associated with network protocols and other services commonly abused for AiTM.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor network traffic for anomalies associated with known AiTM behavior.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor HKLM\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\DNSClient for changes to the "EnableMulticast" DWORD value. A value of "0" indicates LLMNR is disabled.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor for network traffic originating from unknown/unexpected hardware devices. Local network traffic metadata (such as source MAC addressing) as well as usage of network management protocols such as DHCP may be helpful in identifying hardware.

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons through Windows event logs for event IDs 4697 and 7045. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as remote logins or process creation events.

