# Network Provider DLL (T1556.008)

## Description
Adversaries may register malicious network provider dynamic link libraries (DLLs) to capture cleartext user credentials during the authentication process. Network provider DLLs allow Windows to interface with specific network protocols and can also support add-on credential management functions. During the logon process, Winlogon (the interactive logon module) sends credentials to the local `mpnotify.exe` process via RPC. The `mpnotify.exe` process then shares the credentials in cleartext with registered credential managers when notifying that a logon event is happening. 

Adversaries can configure a malicious network provider DLL to receive credentials from `mpnotify.exe`. Once installed as a credential manager (via the Registry), a malicious DLL can receive and save credentials each time a user logs onto a Windows workstation or domain via the `NPLogonNotify()` function.

Adversaries may target planting malicious network provider DLLs on systems known to have increased logon activity and/or administrator logon activity, such as servers and domain controllers.

## Parent Technique
- Modify Authentication Process (T1556)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Audit (M1047)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitor for the addition of network provider Registry keys (e.g., `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\<NetworkProviderName>\NetworkProvider`).

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes to Registry entries for network providers (e.g., `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\NetworkProvider\Order`) and correlate then investigate the DLL files these values reference.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for abnormal API calls to `NPLogonNotify()`.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly created files that may be used to register malicious network provider dynamic link libraries (DLLs).

