# Group Policy Preferences (T1552.006)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to find unsecured credentials in Group Policy Preferences (GPP). GPP are tools that allow administrators to create domain policies with embedded credentials. These policies allow administrators to set local accounts.

These group policies are stored in SYSVOL on a domain controller. This means that any domain user can view the SYSVOL share and decrypt the password (using the AES key that has been made public).

The following tools and scripts can be used to gather and decrypt the password file from Group Policy Preference XML files:

* Metasploit’s post exploitation module: ```post/windows/gather/credentials/gpp```
* Get-GPPPassword
* gpprefdecrypt.py

On the SYSVOL share, adversaries may use the following command to enumerate potential GPP XML files: ```dir /s * .xml```


## Parent Technique
- Unsecured Credentials (T1552)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- APT33 (G0064)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)

## Detection
Monitor for attempts to access SYSVOL that involve searching for XML files. 

Deploy a new XML file with permissions set to Everyone:Deny and monitor for Access Denied errors.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for attempts to access SYSVOL that involve searching for XML files.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to SYSVOL XML files.

``` index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName="*SYSVOL*" ObjectName="*.xml"
| eval AccessType=case(
    AccessMask="0x1", "Read",
    AccessMask="0x2", "Write",
    AccessMask="0x3", "Read/Write",
    AccessMask="0x4", "Delete",
    true(), "Unknown"
)```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may search for SYSVOL data and/or GPP XML files, especially on compromised domain controllers.

Analytic 1 - Commands indicating searches for GPP XML files.

``` (index=security sourcetype="Powershell" EventCode=4104 CommandLine="*dir /s *.xml*") ```


