# Securityd Memory (T1555.002)

## Description
An adversary with root access may gather credentials by reading `securityd`’s memory. `securityd` is a service/daemon responsible for implementing security protocols such as encryption and authorization. A privileged adversary may be able to scan through `securityd`'s memory to find the correct sequence of keys to decrypt the user’s logon keychain. This may provide the adversary with various plaintext passwords, such as those for users, WiFi, mail, browsers, certificates, secure notes, etc.

In OS X prior to El Capitan, users with root access can read plaintext keychain passwords of logged-in users because Apple’s keychain implementation allows these credentials to be cached so that users are not repeatedly prompted for passwords. Apple’s `securityd` utility takes the user’s logon password, encrypts it with PBKDF2, and stores this master key in memory. Apple also uses a set of keys and algorithms to encrypt the user’s password, but once the master key is found, an adversary need only iterate over the other values to unlock the final password.

## Parent Technique
- Credentials from Password Stores (T1555)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for activity surrounded users searching for credentials or using automated tools to scan memory for passwords.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may obtain root access (allowing them to read securityd’s memory), then they can scan through memory to find the correct sequence of keys in relatively few tries to decrypt the user’s logon keychain.

Analytic 1 - Commands indicating attempts to read securityd’s memory.

``` index=security sourcetype IN ("linux_secure", "macos_secure") event_type="process"
(CommandLine IN ("*gcore*", "*dbxutil*", "*vmmap*", "*gdb*", "*lldb*", "*memdump*", "*strings*", "*cat /proc/*/maps*", "*grep /proc/*/maps*") OR
 CommandLine IN ("*security find-generic-password*", "*security find-internet-password*", "*security dump-keychain*"))```

#### Process: Process Access (DS0009): 
Monitor for processes being accessed that may obtain root access (allowing them to read securityd’s memory), then they can scan through memory to find the correct sequence of keys in relatively few tries to decrypt the user’s logon keychain.

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized process access indicating attempts to read securityd’s memory.

``` index=security sourcetype IN ("linux_secure", "macos_secure") event_type="process"
(CommandLine IN ("*gcore*", "*dbxutil*", "*vmmap*", "*gdb*", "*lldb*", "*memdump*", "*strings*", "*cat /proc/*/maps*", "*grep /proc/*/maps*") OR
 (CommandLine IN ("*securityd*" AND CommandLine IN ("*ps*", "*lsof*", "*pmap*")))```

