# Container API (T1552.007)

## Description
Adversaries may gather credentials via APIs within a containers environment. APIs in these environments, such as the Docker API and Kubernetes APIs, allow a user to remotely manage their container resources and cluster components.

An adversary may access the Docker API to collect logs that contain credentials to cloud, container, and various other resources in the environment. An adversary with sufficient permissions, such as via a pod's service account, may also use the Kubernetes API to retrieve credentials from the Kubernetes API server. These credentials may include those needed for Docker API authentication or secrets from Kubernetes cluster components. 

## Parent Technique
- Unsecured Credentials (T1552)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Establish centralized logging for the activity of container and Kubernetes cluster components. Monitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather credentials to container and cloud infrastructure, including the use of discovery API calls by new or unexpected users and APIs that access Docker logs.

It may be possible to detect adversary use of credentials they have obtained such as in Valid Accounts (T1078).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
It may be possible to detect adversary use of credentials they have obtained such as in Valid Accounts (T1078).

Analytic 1 - Failed or unusual logon attempts using compromised credentials.

``` (index=containers sourcetype="docker:events" action="create" container_name="*" user!="root") OR
(index=containers sourcetype="kubernetes:api" verb IN ("create", "patch", "delete") objectRef.resource IN ("pods", "secrets") user.username!="system:serviceaccount:*")```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Establish centralized logging for the activity of container and Kubernetes cluster components. Monitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather credentials to container and cloud infrastructure, including the use of discovery API calls by new or unexpected users and APIs that access Docker logs.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected API calls or access to Docker logs indicating credential access.

``` index=containers sourcetype IN ("docker:events", "kubernetes:api", "kubernetes:container") 
| search Command IN ("docker logs", "kubectl get secrets", "kubectl describe secret", "kubectl exec", "curl http[:]//169.254.169[.]254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/", "aws iam list-access-keys", "az ad sp list")```

