# Private Keys (T1552.004)

## Description
Adversaries may search for private key certificate files on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials. Private cryptographic keys and certificates are used for authentication, encryption/decryption, and digital signatures. Common key and certificate file extensions include: .key, .pgp, .gpg, .ppk., .p12, .pem, .pfx, .cer, .p7b, .asc. 

Adversaries may also look in common key directories, such as ```~/.ssh``` for SSH keys on * nix-based systems or ```C:&#92;Users&#92;(username)&#92;.ssh&#92;``` on Windows. Adversary tools may also search compromised systems for file extensions relating to cryptographic keys and certificates.

When a device is registered to Entra ID, a device key and a transport key are generated and used to verify the device’s identity. An adversary with access to the device may be able to export the keys in order to impersonate the device.

On network devices, private keys may be exported via Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands such as `crypto pki export`. 

Some private keys require a password or passphrase for operation, so an adversary may also use Input Capture (T1056) for keylogging or attempt to Brute Force (T1110) the passphrase off-line. These private keys can be used to authenticate to Remote Services (T1021) like SSH or for use in decrypting other collected files such as email.

## Parent Technique
- Unsecured Credentials (T1552)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Related Groups
- Scattered Spider (G1015)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- Rocke (G0106)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Audit (M1047)
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)

## Detection
Monitor access to files and directories related to cryptographic keys and certificates as a means for potentially detecting access patterns that may indicate collection and exfiltration activity. Collect authentication logs and look for potentially abnormal activity that may indicate improper use of keys or certificates for remote authentication. For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for private keys being exported.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may search for private key certificate files on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials.

Analytic 1 - Commands indicating searches for private keys.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4688 CommandLine="*private key*" OR CommandLine="*certificate*" OR CommandLine IN ("*.key*", "*.pgp*", "*.gpg*", "*.ppk*", "*.p12*", "*.pem*", "*.pfx*", "*.cer*", "*.p7b*", "*.asc*")) OR
(index=sysmon sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode=1 CommandLine="*private key*" OR CommandLine="*certificate*" OR CommandLine IN ("*.key*", "*.pgp*", "*.gpg*", "*.ppk*", "*.p12*", "*.pem*", "*.pfx*", "*.cer*", "*.p7b*", "*.asc*")) OR
(index=os sourcetype="linux_secure" action="execve" CommandLine="*private key*" OR CommandLine="*certificate*" OR CommandLine IN ("*.key*", "*.pgp*", "*.gpg*", "*.ppk*", "*.p12*", "*.pem*", "*.pfx*", "*.cer*", "*.p7b*", "*.asc*")) OR
(index=os sourcetype="macos_secure" event_type="execve" CommandLine="*private key*" OR CommandLine="*certificate*" OR CommandLine IN ("*.key*", "*.pgp*", "*.gpg*", "*.ppk*", "*.p12*", "*.pem*", "*.pfx*", "*.cer*", "*.p7b*", "*.asc*"))```

#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor access to files and directories related to cryptographic keys and certificates as a means for potentially detecting access patterns that may indicate collection and exfiltration activity. 

Analytic 1 - Unauthorized access to cryptographic key files.

``` (index=security sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode=4663 ObjectName IN ("*.key", "*.pgp", "*.gpg", "*.ppk", "*.p12", "*.pem", "*.pfx", "*.cer", "*.p7b", "*.asc", "*private key*", "*certificate*")) OR
(index=sysmon sourcetype="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode=11 TargetObject IN ("*.key", "*.pgp", "*.gpg", "*.ppk", "*.p12", "*.pem", "*.pfx", "*.cer", "*.p7b", "*.asc", "*private key*", "*certificate*")) OR
(index=os sourcetype="linux_secure" action="open" filepath IN ("*.key", "*.pgp", "*.gpg", "*.ppk", "*.p12", "*.pem", "*.pfx", "*.cer", "*.p7b", "*.asc", "*private key*", "*certificate*")) OR
(index=os sourcetype="macos_secure" event_type="open" file_path IN ("*.key", "*.pgp", "*.gpg", "*.ppk", "*.p12", "*.pem", "*.pfx", "*.cer", "*.p7b", "*.asc", "*private key*", "*certificate*"))```

