# Component Object Model (T1559.001)

## Description
Adversaries may use the Windows Component Object Model (COM) for local code execution. COM is an inter-process communication (IPC) component of the native Windows application programming interface (API) that enables interaction between software objects, or executable code that implements one or more interfaces. Through COM, a client object can call methods of server objects, which are typically binary Dynamic Link Libraries (DLL) or executables (EXE). Remote COM execution is facilitated by Remote Services (T1021) such as  Distributed Component Object Model (T1021.003) (DCOM).

Various COM interfaces are exposed that can be abused to invoke arbitrary execution via a variety of programming languages such as C, C++, Java, and Visual Basic (T1059.005). Specific COM objects also exist to directly perform functions beyond code execution, such as creating a Scheduled Task/Job (T1053), fileless download/execution, and other adversary behaviors related to privilege escalation and persistence.

## Parent Technique
- Inter-Process Communication (T1559)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Application Isolation and Sandboxing (M1048)

## Detection
Monitor for COM objects loading DLLs and other modules not typically associated with the application. Enumeration of COM objects, via Query Registry (T1012) or PowerShell (T1059.001), may also proceed malicious use.

Monitor for spawning of processes associated with COM objects, especially those invoked by a user different than the one currently logged on. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for COM objects loading DLLs and other modules not typically associated with the application.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. Enumeration of COM objects, via Query Registry (T1012) or PowerShell (T1059.001), may also proceed malicious use.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that are associated with COM objects, especially those invoked by a user different than the one currently logged on.

