# Code Signing Policy Modification (T1553.006)

## Description
Adversaries may modify code signing policies to enable execution of unsigned or self-signed code. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a program from a developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Security controls can include enforcement mechanisms to ensure that only valid, signed code can be run on an operating system. 

Some of these security controls may be enabled by default, such as Driver Signature Enforcement (DSE) on Windows or System Integrity Protection (SIP) on macOS. Other such controls may be disabled by default but are configurable through application controls, such as only allowing signed Dynamic-Link Libraries (DLLs) to execute on a system. Since it can be useful for developers to modify default signature enforcement policies during the development and testing of applications, disabling of these features may be possible with elevated permissions.

Adversaries may modify code signing policies in a number of ways, including through use of command-line or GUI utilities, Modify Registry (T1112), rebooting the computer in a debug/recovery mode, or by altering the value of variables in kernel memory. Examples of commands that can modify the code signing policy of a system include ```bcdedit.exe -set TESTSIGNING ON``` on Windows and ```csrutil disable``` on macOS. Depending on the implementation, successful modification of a signing policy may require reboot of the compromised system. Additionally, some implementations can introduce visible artifacts for the user (ex: a watermark in the corner of the screen stating the system is in Test Mode). Adversaries may attempt to remove such artifacts.

To gain access to kernel memory to modify variables related to signature checks, such as modifying ```g_CiOptions``` to disable Driver Signature Enforcement, adversaries may conduct Exploitation for Privilege Escalation (T1068) using a signed, but vulnerable driver.

## Parent Technique
- Subvert Trust Controls (T1553)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT39 (G0087)
- Turla (G0010)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Boot Integrity (M1046)
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to modify the code signing policy of a system, such as ```bcdedit.exe -set TESTSIGNING ON```. Consider monitoring for modifications made to Registry keys associated with code signing policies, such as ```HKCU\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Driver Signing```. Modifications to the code signing policy of a system are likely to be rare.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for the execution of commands that could modify the code signing policy of a system, such as ```bcdedit.exe -set TESTSIGNING ON```. 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Consider monitoring for modifications made to Registry keys associated with code signing policies, such as ```HKCU\Software\Policies\Microsoft\Windows NT\Driver Signing```. Modifications to the code signing policy of a system are likely to be rare.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to modify the code signing policy of a system, such as ```bcdedit.exe -set TESTSIGNING ON```. 

