# Web Session Cookie (T1550.004)

## Description
Adversaries can use stolen session cookies to authenticate to web applications and services. This technique bypasses some multi-factor authentication protocols since the session is already authenticated.

Authentication cookies are commonly used in web applications, including cloud-based services, after a user has authenticated to the service so credentials are not passed and re-authentication does not need to occur as frequently. Cookies are often valid for an extended period of time, even if the web application is not actively used. After the cookie is obtained through Steal Web Session Cookie (T1539) or Web Cookies (T1606.001), the adversary may then import the cookie into a browser they control and is then able to use the site or application as the user for as long as the session cookie is active. Once logged into the site, an adversary can access sensitive information, read email, or perform actions that the victim account has permissions to perform.

There have been examples of malware targeting session cookies to bypass multi-factor authentication systems.

## Parent Technique
- Use Alternate Authentication Material (T1550)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Lateral Movement (TA0008)

## Related Groups
- Star Blizzard (G1033)

## Mitigations
- Software Configuration (M1054)

## Detection
Monitor for anomalous access of websites and cloud-based applications by the same user in different locations or by different systems that do not match expected configurations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other service artifacts that provide context of user authentication to web applications, including cloud-based services. Combine this information with web credentials usage events to identify authentication events that do not fit the organization baseline.

#### Web Credential: Web Credential Usage (DS0006): 
Monitor for anomalous access of websites and cloud-based applications by the same user in different locations or by different systems that do not match expected configurations.

