# Conditional Access Policies (T1556.009)

## Description
Adversaries may disable or modify conditional access policies to enable persistent access to compromised accounts. Conditional access policies are additional verifications used by identity providers and identity and access management systems to determine whether a user should be granted access to a resource.

For example, in Entra ID, Okta, and JumpCloud, users can be denied access to applications based on their IP address, device enrollment status, and use of multi-factor authentication. In some cases, identity providers may also support the use of risk-based metrics to deny sign-ins based on a variety of indicators. In AWS and GCP, IAM policies can contain `condition` attributes that verify arbitrary constraints such as the source IP, the date the request was made, and the nature of the resources or regions being requested. These measures help to prevent compromised credentials from resulting in unauthorized access to data or resources, as well as limit user permissions to only those required. 

By modifying conditional access policies, such as adding additional trusted IP ranges, removing Multi-Factor Authentication (T1556.006) requirements, or allowing additional Unused/Unsupported Cloud Regions (T1535), adversaries may be able to ensure persistent access to accounts and circumvent defensive measures.

## Parent Technique
- Modify Authentication Process (T1556)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- Scattered Spider (G1015)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor for changes made to security settings related to Entra ID Conditional Access Policies. For example, these can be found in the Entra ID audit log under the operation name `Update Conditional Access policy.`

#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Modification (DS0025): 
Monitor for changes made to conditional access policies used by SaaS identity providers and internal IaaS identity and access management systems.

