# Subvert Trust Controls (T1553)

## Description
Adversaries may undermine security controls that will either warn users of untrusted activity or prevent execution of untrusted programs. Operating systems and security products may contain mechanisms to identify programs or websites as possessing some level of trust. Examples of such features would include a program being allowed to run because it is signed by a valid code signing certificate, a program prompting the user with a warning because it has an attribute set from being downloaded from the Internet, or getting an indication that you are about to connect to an untrusted site.

Adversaries may attempt to subvert these trust mechanisms. The method adversaries use will depend on the specific mechanism they seek to subvert. Adversaries may conduct File and Directory Permissions Modification (T1222) or Modify Registry (T1112) in support of subverting these controls. Adversaries may also create or steal code signing certificates to acquire trust on target systems. 

## Sub-techniques
- Gatekeeper Bypass (T1553.001)
- Code Signing (T1553.002)
- SIP and Trust Provider Hijacking (T1553.003)
- Code Signing Policy Modification (T1553.006)
- Mark-of-the-Web Bypass (T1553.005)
- Install Root Certificate (T1553.004)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Axiom (G0001)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Software Configuration (M1054)

## Detection
Collect and analyze signing certificate metadata on software that executes within the environment to look for unusual certificate characteristics and outliers. Periodically baseline registered SIPs and trust providers (Registry entries and files on disk), specifically looking for new, modified, or non-Microsoft entries.  A system's root certificates are unlikely to change frequently. Monitor new certificates installed on a system that could be due to malicious activity.

Analyze Autoruns data for oddities and anomalies, specifically malicious files attempting persistent execution by hiding within auto-starting locations. Autoruns will hide entries signed by Microsoft or Windows by default, so ensure "Hide Microsoft Entries" and "Hide Windows Entries" are both deselected. 

Monitor and investigate attempts to modify extended file attributes with utilities such as ```xattr```. Built-in system utilities may generate high false positive alerts, so compare against baseline knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modification events with other indications of malicious activity where possible. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Enable CryptoAPI v2 (CAPI) event logging  to monitor and analyze error events related to failed trust validation (Event ID 81, though this event can be subverted by hijacked trust provider components) as well as any other provided information events (ex: successful validations). Code Integrity event logging may also provide valuable indicators of malicious SIP or trust provider loads, since protected processes that attempt to load a maliciously-crafted trust validation component will likely fail (Event ID 3033). 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Creation (DS0024): 
Monitoring the creation of (sub)keys within the Windows Registry may reveal malicious attempts to modify trust settings, such as the installation of root certificates. Installed root certificates are located in the Registry under ```HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\EnterpriseCertificates\Root\Certificates\``` and </code>[HKLM or HKCU]\Software[\Policies\]\Microsoft\SystemCertificates\Root\Certificates\</code>. There are a subset of root certificates that are consistent across Windows systems and can be used for comparison: 
* 18F7C1FCC3090203FD5BAA2F861A754976C8DD25
* 245C97DF7514E7CF2DF8BE72AE957B9E04741E85
* 3B1EFD3A66EA28B16697394703A72CA340A05BD5
* 7F88CD7223F3C813818C994614A89C99FA3B5247
* 8F43288AD272F3103B6FB1428485EA3014C0BCFE
* A43489159A520F0D93D032CCAF37E7FE20A8B419
* BE36A4562FB2EE05DBB3D32323ADF445084ED656
* CDD4EEAE6000AC7F40C3802C171E30148030C072

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Collect and analyze signing certificate metadata on software that executes within the environment to look for unusual certificate characteristics and outliers.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Command monitoring may reveal malicious attempts to modify trust settings, such as the installation of root certificates or modifications to trust attributes/policies applied to files.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor processes and arguments for malicious attempts to modify trust settings, such as the installation of root certificates or modifications to trust attributes/policies applied to files.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Periodically baseline registered SIPs and trust providers (Registry entries and files on disk), specifically looking for new, modified, or non-Microsoft entries. Also analyze Autoruns data for oddities and anomalies, specifically malicious files attempting persistent execution by hiding within auto-starting locations. Autoruns will hide entries signed by Microsoft or Windows by default, so ensure “Hide Microsoft Entries” and “Hide Windows Entries” are both deselected.

On macOS, the removal of the ```com.apple.quarantine``` flag by a user instead of the operating system is a suspicious action and should be examined further. Also monitor software update frameworks that may strip this flag when performing updates.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitoring changes to the Windows Registry may reveal malicious attempts to modify trust settings, such as the installation of root certificates. Installed root certificates are located in the Registry under ```HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\EnterpriseCertificates\Root\Certificates\``` and </code>[HKLM or HKCU]\Software[\Policies\]\Microsoft\SystemCertificates\Root\Certificates\</code>. There are a subset of root certificates that are consistent across Windows systems and can be used for comparison:  Also consider enabling the Registry Global Object Access Auditing  setting in the Advanced Security Audit policy to apply a global system access control list (SACL) and event auditing on modifications to Registry values (sub)keys related to SIPs and trust providers: 

