# Reversible Encryption (T1556.005)

## Description
An adversary may abuse Active Directory authentication encryption properties to gain access to credentials on Windows systems. The ```AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption``` property specifies whether reversible password encryption for an account is enabled or disabled. By default this property is disabled (instead storing user credentials as the output of one-way hashing functions) and should not be enabled unless legacy or other software require it.

If the property is enabled and/or a user changes their password after it is enabled, an adversary may be able to obtain the plaintext of passwords created/changed after the property was enabled. To decrypt the passwords, an adversary needs four components:

1. Encrypted password (```G$RADIUSCHAP```) from the Active Directory user-structure ```userParameters```
2. 16 byte randomly-generated value (```G$RADIUSCHAPKEY```) also from ```userParameters```
3. Global LSA secret (```G$MSRADIUSCHAPKEY```)
4. Static key hardcoded in the Remote Access Subauthentication DLL (```RASSFM.DLL```)

With this information, an adversary may be able to reproduce the encryption key and subsequently decrypt the encrypted password value.

An adversary may set this property at various scopes through Local Group Policy Editor, user properties, Fine-Grained Password Policy (FGPP), or via the ActiveDirectory PowerShell (T1059.001) module. For example, an adversary may implement and apply a FGPP to users or groups if the Domain Functional Level is set to "Windows Server 2008" or higher. In PowerShell, an adversary may make associated changes to user settings using commands similar to ```Set-ADUser -AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption $true```.

## Parent Technique
- Modify Authentication Process (T1556)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Password Policies (M1027)

## Detection
Monitor property changes in Group Policy: ```Computer Configuration\Windows Settings\Security Settings\Account Policies\Password Policy\Store passwords using reversible encryption```. By default, the property should be set to Disabled.

Monitor command-line usage for ```-AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption $true``` or other actions that could be related to malicious tampering of user settings (i.e. Group Policy Modification (T1484.001)). Furthermore, consider monitoring and/or blocking suspicious execution of Active Directory PowerShell modules, such as ```Set-ADUser``` and ```Set-ADAccountControl```, that change account configurations. 

Monitor Fine-Grained Password Policies and regularly audit user accounts and group settings.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Modification (DS0026): 
Monitor property changes in Group Policy: ```Computer Configuration\Windows Settings\Security Settings\Account Policies\Password Policy\Store passwords using reversible encryption```. By default, the property should be set to Disabled.

Analytic 1 - Enabling reversible encryption outside of standard procedures.

```index=windows source="WinEventLog:Security" (EventCode=5136 OR EventCode=5137 OR EventCode=5138 OR EventCode=5139)
| search AttributeLDAPDisplayName="msDS-User-Account-Control-Computed" OR AttributeLDAPDisplayName="userParameters"
| rex field=_raw "ObjectDN=(?P<ObjectDN>[^,]+)"
| eval Modification=if(match(AttributeValue, ".*;PwdProperties=1.*"), "Enabled", "Disabled")
| stats count by ObjectDN, Modification, EventCode, AttributeValue
| where Modification="Enabled" ```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor command-line usage for ```-AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption $true``` or other actions that could be related to malicious tampering of user settings (i.e. Group Policy Modification (T1484.001)). 

Analytic 1 - Command-line actions indicating changes to encryption settings.

``` index=security (sourcetype="WinEventLog:Security" OR sourcetype="powershell")(EventCode=4688 OR EventCode=4104) commandline="*set-aduser*" commandline="*allowreversiblepasswordencryption*" 
        | table _time, Process_ID, User, CommandLine```

#### User Account: User Account Metadata (DS0002): 
Monitor Fine-Grained Password Policies and regularly audit user accounts and group settings.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Consider monitoring and/or blocking suspicious execution of Active Directory PowerShell modules, such as ```Set-ADUser``` and ```Set-ADAccountControl```, that change account configurations.

