# Network Device Authentication (T1556.004)

## Description
Adversaries may use Patch System Image (T1601.001) to hard code a password in the operating system, thus bypassing of native authentication mechanisms for local accounts on network devices.

Modify System Image (T1601) may include implanted code to the operating system for network devices to provide access for adversaries using a specific password.  The modification includes a specific password which is implanted in the operating system image via the patch.  Upon authentication attempts, the inserted code will first check to see if the user input is the password. If so, access is granted. Otherwise, the implanted code will pass the credentials on for verification of potentially valid credentials.

## Parent Technique
- Modify Authentication Process (T1556)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)

## Detection
Consider verifying the checksum of the operating system file and verifying the image of the operating system in memory.

Detection of this behavior may be difficult, detection efforts may be focused on closely related adversary behaviors, such as Modify System Image (T1601).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to the checksum of the operating system file and verifying the image of the operating system in memory. Detection of this behavior may be difficult, detection efforts may be focused on closely related adversary behaviors, such as Modify System Image.

