# Compromise Host Software Binary (T1554)

## Description
Adversaries may modify host software binaries to establish persistent access to systems. Software binaries/executables provide a wide range of system commands or services, programs, and libraries. Common software binaries are SSH clients, FTP clients, email clients, web browsers, and many other user or server applications.

Adversaries may establish persistence though modifications to host software binaries. For example, an adversary may replace or otherwise infect a legitimate application binary (or support files) with a backdoor. Since these binaries may be routinely executed by applications or the user, the adversary can leverage this for persistent access to the host. An adversary may also modify a software binary such as an SSH client in order to persistently collect credentials during logins (i.e., Modify Authentication Process (T1556)).

An adversary may also modify an existing binary by patching in malicious functionality (e.g., IAT Hooking/Entry point patching) prior to the binary’s legitimate execution. For example, an adversary may modify the entry point of a binary to point to malicious code patched in by the adversary before resuming normal execution flow.

After modifying a binary, an adversary may attempt to Impair Defenses (T1562) by preventing it from updating (e.g., via the `yum-versionlock` command or `versionlock.list` file in Linux systems that use the yum package manager).

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)

## Related Groups
- APT5 (G1023)

## Mitigations
- Code Signing (M1045)

## Detection
Collect and analyze signing certificate metadata and check signature validity on software that executes within the environment. Look for changes to client software that do not correlate with known software or patch cycles. 

Consider monitoring for anomalous behavior from client applications, such as atypical module loads, file reads/writes, or network connections.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of  client software binaries to establish persistent access to systems.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor changes to client software that do not correlate with known software or patch cycles.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Collect and analyze signing certificate metadata and check signature validity on software that executes within the environment

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may modify client software binaries to establish persistent access to systems.

