# Archive Collected Data (T1560)

## Description
An adversary may compress and/or encrypt data that is collected prior to exfiltration. Compressing the data can help to obfuscate the collected data and minimize the amount of data sent over the network. Encryption can be used to hide information that is being exfiltrated from detection or make exfiltration less conspicuous upon inspection by a defender.

Both compression and encryption are done prior to exfiltration, and can be performed using a utility, 3rd party library, or custom method.

## Sub-techniques
- Archive via Utility (T1560.001)
- Archive via Custom Method (T1560.003)
- Archive via Library (T1560.002)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Related Groups
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Axiom (G0001)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- APT28 (G0007)
- APT32 (G0050)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Leviathan (G0065)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Archival software and archived files can be detected in many ways. Common utilities that may be present on the system or brought in by an adversary may be detectable through process monitoring and monitoring for command-line arguments for known archival utilities. This may yield a significant number of benign events, depending on how systems in the environment are typically used.

A process that loads the Windows DLL crypt32.dll may be used to perform encryption, decryption, or verification of file signatures.

Consider detecting writing of files with extensions and/or headers associated with compressed or encrypted file types. Detection efforts may focus on follow-on exfiltration activity, where compressed or encrypted files can be detected in transit with a network intrusion detection or data loss prevention system analyzing file headers.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that will aid in compression or encrypting data that is collected prior to exfiltration, such as tar. 

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that aid in compression or encrypting data that is collected prior to exfiltration, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip.  

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor newly constructed files being written with extensions and/or headers associated with compressed or encrypted file types. Detection efforts may focus on follow-on exfiltration activity, where compressed or encrypted files can be detected in transit with a network intrusion detection or data loss prevention system analyzing file headers.

