# Spearphishing via Service (T1566.003)

## Description
Adversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing via service is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of third party services rather than directly via enterprise email channels. 

All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. These services are more likely to have a less-strict security policy than an enterprise. As with most kinds of spearphishing, the goal is to generate rapport with the target or get the target's interest in some way. Adversaries will create fake social media accounts and message employees for potential job opportunities. Doing so allows a plausible reason for asking about services, policies, and software that's running in an environment. The adversary can then send malicious links or attachments through these services.

A common example is to build rapport with a target via social media, then send content to a personal webmail service that the target uses on their work computer. This allows an adversary to bypass some email restrictions on the work account, and the target is more likely to open the file since it's something they were expecting. If the payload doesn't work as expected, the adversary can continue normal communications and troubleshoot with the target on how to get it working.

## Parent Technique
- Phishing (T1566)

## Tactics
- Initial Access (TA0001)

## Related Groups
- CURIUM (G1012)
- Windshift (G0112)
- Ajax Security Team (G0130)
- EXOTIC LILY (G1011)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- APT29 (G0016)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Dark Caracal (G0070)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)

## Mitigations
- User Training (M1017)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Because most common third-party services used for spearphishing via service leverage TLS encryption, SSL/TLS inspection is generally required to detect the initial communication/delivery. With SSL/TLS inspection intrusion detection signatures or other security gateway appliances may be able to detect malware. 

Anti-virus can potentially detect malicious documents and files that are downloaded on the user's computer. Endpoint sensing or network sensing can potentially detect malicious events once the file is opened (such as a Microsoft Word document or PDF reaching out to the internet or spawning Powershell.exe) for techniques such as Exploitation for Client Execution (T1203) or usage of malicious scripts.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may send spearphishing messages via third-party services in an attempt to gain access to victim systems. 

Analytic 1 - Detecting Malicious Downloads from Personal Email or Social Media

```(EventCode=1 OR EventCode=4688)
OR (source="/var/log/audit/audit.log" type="open")
| where (process_path="C:\\Users\\*\\Downloads\\*" OR process_path="/home/*/Downloads/*")
| where (parent_process IN ("chrome.exe", "firefox.exe", "edge.exe", "safari.exe") 
        AND url IN ("mail.google.com", "outlook.live.com", "linkedin.com", "telegram.org", "discord.com", "dropbox.com"))
| eval risk_score=case(
    like(file_name, "%.exe"), 8,
    like(file_name, "%.js"), 9,
    like(file_name, "%.vbs"), 7
)
| where risk_score >= 7
| stats count by _time, host, user, file_name, process_path, parent_process, risk_score ```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor for outbound connections to personal email, social media, or file-sharing platforms, shortened URLs or redirect chains in chat messages, links leading to newly registered or uncommon domains, or encrypted traffic indicating potential TLS phishing interactions.

Analytic 1 - Detecting Spearphishing Links from Third-Party Services

``` (EventCode=3)
OR (source="zeek_http_logs" uri IN (malicious_url_list))
OR (source="proxy_logs" url IN (malicious_url_list))
| eval risk_score=case(
    domain IN ("bit.ly", "tinyurl.com"), 8,
    domain IN ("*.xyz", "*.top"), 7,
    uri IN (malicious_url_list), 9
)
| where risk_score >= 7
| stats count by _time, host, user, uri, domain, risk_score```

