# Systemctl (T1569.003)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse systemctl to execute commands or programs. Systemctl is the primary interface for systemd, the Linux init system and service manager. Typically invoked from a shell, Systemctl can also be integrated into scripts or applications.   

Adversaries may use systemctl to execute commands or programs as Systemd Service (T1543.002)s. Common subcommands include: `systemctl start`, `systemctl stop`, `systemctl enable`, `systemctl disable`, and `systemctl status`.

## Parent Technique
- System Services (T1569)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor the execution of the `systemctl` command, focusing on subcommands such as `start` and `enable`, that may be used by adversaries to load system services.  

Analytic 1 - Suspicious command execution of systemctl 

```sourcetype=auditd OR sourcetype=sysmon_linux
(command="*systemctl*" AND (command="*start*" OR command="*enable*"))
| stats count by host, user, command, parent_process, _time
| where user!="root" AND NOT match(command, "expected_service")
| sort -_time
```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed daemons that may abuse systemctl to execute commands or programs. 

Analytic 1 - suspicious process execution of systemctl

```sourcetype=sysmon_linux OR sourcetype=auditd
(parent_process="systemd" OR process_name="*daemon*")
| stats count by process_name, parent_process, user, cmdline, _time
| where user!="root" AND NOT match(cmdline, "known_daemon_pattern")
| sort -_time
 ``` 

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor the creation or modification of system services via the `systemctl` command.  

Analytic 1 - suspicious systemctl service creation 

``` sourcetype=auditd
(command="*systemctl*" AND command="*enable*" OR command="*create*")
| stats count by user, command, process_name, _time
| where NOT match(command, "whitelisted_services")
| sort -_time
```

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Every systemd service must have a corresponding unit file on disk which can be monitored. Unit files are located in the `/etc/systemd/system`, `/usr/lib/systemd/system/`, and `/home/$username/.config/systemd/user/` directories.  


Analytic 1 - suspicious modification of service unit files 

``` sourcetype=auditd
(path IN ("/etc/systemd/system/*", "/usr/lib/systemd/system/*", "/home/*/.config/systemd/user/*")
 AND (syscall="open" OR syscall="write"))
| stats count by file_path, user, process_name, _time
| where NOT match(file_path, "expected_admin_changes")
| sort -_time
```

