# Run Virtual Instance (T1564.006)

## Description
Adversaries may carry out malicious operations using a virtual instance to avoid detection. A wide variety of virtualization technologies exist that allow for the emulation of a computer or computing environment. By running malicious code inside of a virtual instance, adversaries can hide artifacts associated with their behavior from security tools that are unable to monitor activity inside the virtual instance. Additionally, depending on the virtual networking implementation (ex: bridged adapter), network traffic generated by the virtual instance can be difficult to trace back to the compromised host as the IP address and hostname might not match known values.

Adversaries may utilize native support for virtualization (ex: Hyper-V) or drop the necessary files to run a virtual instance (ex: VirtualBox binaries). After running a virtual instance, adversaries may create a shared folder between the guest and host with permissions that enable the virtual instance to interact with the host file system.

In VMWare environments, adversaries may leverage the vCenter console to create new virtual machines. However, they may also create virtual machines directly on ESXi servers by running a valid `.vmx` file with the `/bin/vmx` utility. Adding this command to `/etc/rc.local.d/local.sh` (i.e., RC Scripts (T1037.004)) will cause the VM to persistently restart. Creating a VM this way prevents it from appearing in the vCenter console or in the output to the `vim-cmd vmsvc/getallvms` command on the ESXi server, thereby hiding it from typical administrative activities.

## Parent Technique
- Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Audit (M1047)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Consider monitoring for files and processes associated with running a virtual instance, such as binary files associated with common virtualization technologies (ex: VirtualBox, VMware, QEMU, Hyper-V). Consider monitoring the size of virtual machines running on the system. Adversaries may create virtual images which are smaller than those of typical virtual machines. Network adapter information may also be helpful in detecting the use of virtual instances.

Consider monitoring for process command-line arguments that may be atypical for benign use of virtualization software. Usage of virtualization binaries or command-line arguments associated with running a silent installation may be especially suspect (ex. ```-silent```, ```-ignore-reboot```), as well as those associated with running a headless (in the background with no UI) virtual instance (ex. ```VBoxManage startvm $VM --type headless```). Similarly, monitoring command line arguments which suppress notifications may highlight potentially malicious activity (ex. ```VBoxManage.exe setextradata global GUI/SuppressMessages "all"```).

Monitor for commands which enable hypervisors such as Hyper-V.  If virtualization software is installed by the adversary, the Registry may provide detection opportunities. Consider monitoring for Windows Service (T1543.003), with respect to virtualization software. 

Benign usage of virtualization technology is common in enterprise environments, data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to Windows Registry keys and/or values that may be the result of using a virtual instance to avoid detection. For example, if virtualization software is installed by the adversary the Registry may provide detection opportunities. 

#### Image: Image Metadata (DS0007): 
Consider monitoring the size of virtual machines running on the system. Adversaries may create virtual images which are smaller than those of typical virtual machines. Network adapter information may also be helpful in detecting the use of virtual instances.

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons that may carry out malicious operations using a virtual instance to avoid detection. Consider monitoring for new Windows Service (T1543.003), with respect to virtualization software.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes associated with running a virtual instance, such as those launched from binary files associated with common virtualization technologies (ex: VirtualBox, VMware, QEMU, Hyper-V).

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files associated with running a virtual instance, such as binary files associated with common virtualization technologies (ex: VirtualBox, VMware, QEMU, Hyper-V). On ESXi servers, this includes new `.vmx` files in the `/vmfs/volumes/` directory.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Consider monitoring for commands and arguments that may be atypical for benign use of virtualization software. Usage of virtualization binaries or command-line arguments associated with running a silent installation may be especially suspect (ex. ```-silent```, ```-ignore-reboot```), as well as those associated with running a headless (in the background with no UI) virtual instance (ex. ```VBoxManage startvm $VM --type headless```). Similarly, monitoring command line arguments which suppress notifications may highlight potentially malicious activity (ex. ```VBoxManage.exe setextradata global GUI/SuppressMessages "all"```). Monitor for commands which enable hypervisors such as Hyper-V. On ESXi servers, monitor for unsusual use of the `/bin/vmx` utility.

