# Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Description
Adversaries may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection. Operating systems may have features to hide various artifacts, such as important system files and administrative task execution, to avoid disrupting user work environments and prevent users from changing files or features on the system. Adversaries may abuse these features to hide artifacts such as files, directories, user accounts, or other system activity to evade detection.

Adversaries may also attempt to hide artifacts associated with malicious behavior by creating computing regions that are isolated from common security instrumentation, such as through the use of virtualization technology.

## Sub-techniques
- File/Path Exclusions (T1564.012)
- Email Hiding Rules (T1564.008)
- Ignore Process Interrupts (T1564.011)
- Bind Mounts (T1564.013)
- Extended Attributes (T1564.014)
- Hidden Users (T1564.002)
- Resource Forking (T1564.009)
- Run Virtual Instance (T1564.006)
- VBA Stomping (T1564.007)
- Hidden Window (T1564.003)
- Hidden File System (T1564.005)
- Hidden Files and Directories (T1564.001)
- NTFS File Attributes (T1564.004)
- Process Argument Spoofing (T1564.010)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)
- Application Developer Guidance (M1013)
- Audit (M1047)
- Antivirus/Antimalware (M1049)

## Detection
Monitor files, processes, and command-line arguments for actions indicative of hidden artifacts. Monitor event and authentication logs for records of hidden artifacts being used. Monitor the file system and shell commands for hidden attribute usage.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Firmware: Firmware Modification (DS0001): 
Monitor for changes made to firewall rules for unexpected modifications to allow/block specific network traffic that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys and/or values that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed user accounts that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### User Account: User Account Metadata (DS0002): 
Monitor for contextual data about an account, which may include a username, user ID, environmental data that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.

