# Transmitted Data Manipulation (T1565.002)

## Description
Adversaries may alter data en route to storage or other systems in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating transmitted data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.

Manipulation may be possible over a network connection or between system processes where there is an opportunity deploy a tool that will intercept and change information. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target transmission mechanism as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

## Parent Technique
- Data Manipulation (T1565)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)

## Mitigations
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)

## Detection
Detecting the manipulation of data as at passes over a network can be difficult without the appropriate tools. In some cases integrity verification checks, such as file hashing, may be used on critical files as they transit a network. With some critical processes involving transmission of data, manual or out-of-band integrity checking may be useful for identifying manipulated data. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with altering data. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor for networks that solicits and obtains the configuration information of the queried device. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor for network traffic originating from unknown/unexpected hardware devices.

