# Launchctl (T1569.001)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse launchctl to execute commands or programs. Launchctl interfaces with launchd, the service management framework for macOS. Launchctl supports taking subcommands on the command-line, interactively, or even redirected from standard input.

Adversaries use launchctl to execute commands and programs as Launch Agent (T1543.001)s or Launch Daemon (T1543.004)s. Common subcommands include: ```launchctl load```,```launchctl unload```, and ```launchctl start```. Adversaries can use scripts or manually run the commands ```launchctl load -w "%s/Library/LaunchAgents/%s"``` or ```/bin/launchctl load``` to execute Launch Agent (T1543.001)s or Launch Daemon (T1543.004)s.


## Parent Technique
- System Services (T1569)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Every Launch Agent and Launch Daemon must have a corresponding plist file on disk which can be monitored. Monitor for recently modified or created plist files with a significant change to the executable path executed with the command-line ```launchctl``` command. Plist files are located in the root, system, and users ```/Library/LaunchAgents``` or ```/Library/LaunchDaemons``` folders. 

Monitor command-line execution of the ```launchctl``` command immediately followed by abnormal network connections. Launch Agent (T1543.001)s or Launch Daemon (T1543.004)s with executable paths pointing to ```/tmp``` and ```/Shared``` folders locations are potentially suspicious. 

When removing Launch Agent (T1543.001)s or Launch Daemon (T1543.004)s ensure the services are unloaded prior to deleting plist files.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed daemons that may abuse launchctl to execute commands or programs.

Analytic 1 - Executable path is in unusual directories

```sourcetype=osquery OR sourcetype=auditd
| search parent_process="launchctl" AND process_path IN ("/tmp/*", "/Shared/*")
 ``` 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor the execution of the ```launchctl``` command, focusing on subcommands such as ```load```, ```unload```, and ```start``` that may be used by adversaries to load Launch Agents or Launch Daemons.

Note: This analytic monitors the execution of the launchctl command and its key subcommands. Exclude known administrative users to minimize false positives.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Launchctl

```sourcetype=macOS:unified OR sourcetype=osquery OR sourcetype=auditd
| search command IN ("launchctl load", "launchctl unload", "launchctl start")
 ```

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor the creation or modification of Launch Agents or Launch Daemons via the launchctl command.

Analytic 1 - Create Service In Suspicious File Path

```sourcetype=osquery
| search service_action="create" OR service_action="modify"
| where user NOT IN ("known_admins") AND service_name IN ("LaunchAgents", "LaunchDaemons")
 ```

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Every Launch Agent and Launch Daemon must have a corresponding plist file on disk which can be monitored. Plist files are located in the root, system, and users ```/Library/LaunchAgents``` or ```/Library/LaunchDaemons``` folders. Launch Agent (T1543.001) or Launch Daemon (T1543.004) with executable paths pointing to /tmp and /Shared folders locations are potentially suspicious.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious plist file modifications.

```sourcetype=osquery OR sourcetype=FSEvents
| search file_path IN ("/Library/LaunchAgents/*", "/Library/LaunchDaemons/*")
| where file_action="modified" AND new_executable_path IN ("/tmp/*", "/Shared/*")
 ```

