# Disable or Modify Cloud Logs (T1562.008)

## Description
An adversary may disable or modify cloud logging capabilities and integrations to limit what data is collected on their activities and avoid detection. Cloud environments allow for collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a user does within the environment. If an adversary has sufficient permissions, they can disable or modify logging to avoid detection of their activities.

For example, in AWS an adversary may disable CloudWatch/CloudTrail integrations prior to conducting further malicious activity. They may alternatively tamper with logging functionality – for example, by removing any associated SNS topics, disabling multi-region logging, or disabling settings that validate and/or encrypt log files. In Office 365, an adversary may disable logging on mail collection activities for specific users by using the `Set-MailboxAuditBypassAssociation` cmdlet, by disabling M365 Advanced Auditing for the user, or by downgrading the user’s license from an Enterprise E5 to an Enterprise E3 license.

## Parent Technique
- Impair Defenses (T1562)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor logs for API calls to disable logging. In AWS, monitor for: ```StopLogging``` and ```DeleteTrail```. In GCP, monitor for: ```google.logging.v2.ConfigServiceV2.UpdateSink```.  In Azure, monitor for ```az monitor diagnostic-settings delete```. Additionally, a sudden loss of a log source may indicate that it has been disabled. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Modification (DS0025): 
Monitor changes made to cloud services for unexpected modifications to settings and/or data.

Analytic 1 - Operations performed by unexpected initiators, frequent modifications, changes to critical resources

``` index="azure_activity_logs" OperationName="Create or update resource diagnostic setting"
| stats count by InitiatorName, ResourceID, Status
| where Status!="Succeeded" OR InitiatorName!="expected_initiator"
| sort by Time```

#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor for changes to account settings associated with users/tenants that may impact defensive logging capabilities, such as the `Update User` and `Change User License` events in the Azure AD audit log.

#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Disable (DS0025): 
Monitor logs for API calls to disable logging. In AWS, monitor for: ```StopLogging```, ```UpdateTrail``` ```DeleteTrail```. In GCP, monitor for: ```google.logging.v2.ConfigServiceV2.UpdateSink``` and ```google.logging.v2.ConfigServiceV2.DeleteSink```. In Azure, monitor for ```az monitor diagnostic-settings update``` and ```az monitor diagnostic-settings delete```. Additionally, a sudden loss of a log source may indicate that it has been disabled.

