# Disable or Modify Linux Audit System (T1562.012)

## Description
Adversaries may disable or modify the Linux audit system to hide malicious activity and avoid detection. Linux admins use the Linux Audit system to track security-relevant information on a system. The Linux Audit system operates at the kernel-level and maintains event logs on application and system activity such as process, network, file, and login events based on pre-configured rules.

Often referred to as `auditd`, this is the name of the daemon used to write events to disk and is governed by the parameters set in the `audit.conf` configuration file. Two primary ways to configure the log generation rules are through the command line `auditctl` utility and the file `/etc/audit/audit.rules`,  containing a sequence of `auditctl` commands loaded at boot time.

With root privileges, adversaries may be able to ensure their activity is not logged through disabling the Audit system service, editing the configuration/rule files, or by hooking the Audit system library functions. Using the command line, adversaries can disable the Audit system service through killing processes associated with `auditd` daemon or use `systemctl` to stop the Audit service. Adversaries can also hook Audit system functions to disable logging or modify the rules contained in the `/etc/audit/audit.rules` or `audit.conf` files to ignore malicious activity.

## Parent Technique
- Impair Defenses (T1562)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for abnormal execution of syslog and other functions associated with system logging.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor changes made to the `/etc/audit/audit.rules` file containing the sequence of `auditctl` commands loaded at boot time. 

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Command-line invocation of the `auditctl` utility may be unusual, depending on how systems are typically used in a particular environment. At runtime, look for commands to modify or create rules using the `auditctl` utility. 

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for missing log files from machines with known active periods.

#### Process: Process Modification (DS0009): 
Using another process or third-party tools, monitor for potentially malicious modifications or access to the `auditd` system process.

