# Hidden Users (T1564.002)

## Description
Adversaries may use hidden users to hide the presence of user accounts they create or modify. Administrators may want to hide users when there are many user accounts on a given system or if they want to hide their administrative or other management accounts from other users. 

In macOS, adversaries can create or modify a user to be hidden through manipulating plist files, folder attributes, and user attributes. To prevent a user from being shown on the login screen and in System Preferences, adversaries can set the userID to be under 500 and set the key value ```Hide500Users``` to ```TRUE``` in the ```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow``` plist file. Every user has a userID associated with it. When the ```Hide500Users``` key value is set to ```TRUE```, users with a userID under 500 do not appear on the login screen and in System Preferences. Using the command line, adversaries can use the ```dscl``` utility to create hidden user accounts by setting the ```IsHidden``` attribute to ```1```. Adversaries can also hide a user’s home folder by changing the ```chflags``` to hidden. 

Adversaries may similarly hide user accounts in Windows. Adversaries can set the ```HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\SpecialAccounts\UserList``` Registry key value to ```0``` for a specific user to prevent that user from being listed on the logon screen.

On Linux systems, adversaries may hide user accounts from the login screen, also referred to as the greeter. The method an adversary may use depends on which Display Manager the distribution is currently using. For example, on an Ubuntu system using the GNOME Display Manger (GDM), accounts may be hidden from the greeter using the ```gsettings``` command (ex: ```sudo -u gdm gsettings set org.gnome.login-screen disable-user-list true```). Display Managers are not anchored to specific distributions and may be changed by a user or adversary.

## Parent Technique
- Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Kimsuky (G0094)

## Mitigations
- Operating System Configuration (M1028)

## Detection
Monitor for users that may be hidden from the login screen but still present in additional artifacts of usage such as directories and authentication logs. 

Monitor processes and command-line events for actions that could be taken to add a new user and subsequently hide it from login screens. Monitor Registry events for modifications to the ```HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\SpecialAccounts\UserList``` key.

In macOS, monitor for commands, processes, and file activity in combination with a user that has a userID under 500. Monitor for modifications to set the ```Hide500Users``` key value to ```TRUE``` in the ```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow``` plist file. Monitor the command line for usage of the ```dscl . create``` command with the ```IsHidden``` attribute set to ```1```. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may use hidden users to mask the presence of user accounts they create or modify. Monitor for changes made to the ```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow``` plist file for unexpected modifications to the ``` Hide500Users``` key value on macOS.

#### User Account: User Account Creation (DS0002): 
Monitor for newly constructed user accounts, such as userIDs under 500 on macOS, that may mask the presence of user accounts they create or modify.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry key or values for unexpected modifications of the ```HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\SpecialAccounts\UserList``` key.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes for actions that could be taken to add a new user and subsequently hide it from login screens.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that could be taken to add a new user and subsequently hide it from login screens.

#### User Account: User Account Metadata (DS0002): 
Monitor for contextual data about an account, which may include a username, user ID, environmental data that may mask the presence of user accounts they create or modify. On macOS, identify users with an userID under 500 and the ```Hide500Users``` key value in the ```/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow``` plist file set to ```TRUE```.

