# Runtime Data Manipulation (T1565.003)

## Description
Adversaries may modify systems in order to manipulate the data as it is accessed and displayed to an end user, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating runtime data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.

Adversaries may alter application binaries used to display data in order to cause runtime manipulations. Adversaries may also conduct Change Default File Association (T1546.001) and Masquerading (T1036) to cause a similar effect. The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

## Parent Technique
- Data Manipulation (T1565)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)

## Mitigations
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Inspect important application binary file hashes, locations, and modifications for suspicious/unexpected values.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected files with manipulated data in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a file in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity 

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with altering data. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information.

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, etc that would aid in the manipulation of data to hide activity

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity

