# Spearphishing Voice (T1566.004)

## Description
Adversaries may use voice communications to ultimately gain access to victim systems. Spearphishing voice is a specific variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of spearphishing in that is employs the use of manipulating a user into providing access to systems through a phone call or other forms of voice communications. Spearphishing frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source (ex: Impersonation (T1656)) and/or creating a sense of urgency or alarm for the recipient.

All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. In this scenario, adversaries are not directly sending malware to a victim vice relying on User Execution (T1204) for delivery and execution. For example, victims may receive phishing messages that instruct them to call a phone number where they are directed to visit a malicious URL, download malware, or install adversary-accessible remote management tools (Remote Access Tools (T1219)) onto their computer.

Adversaries may also combine voice phishing with Multi-Factor Authentication Request Generation (T1621) in order to trick users into divulging MFA credentials or accepting authentication prompts.

## Parent Technique
- Phishing (T1566)

## Tactics
- Initial Access (TA0001)

## Related Groups
- Storm-1811 (G1046)

## Mitigations
- User Training (M1017)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor call logs from corporate devices to identify patterns of potential voice phishing, such as calls to/from known malicious phone numbers. Correlate these records with system events.

