# Disable or Modify Tools (T1562.001)

## Description
Adversaries may modify and/or disable security tools to avoid possible detection of their malware/tools and activities. This may take many forms, such as killing security software processes or services, modifying / deleting Registry keys or configuration files so that tools do not operate properly, or other methods to interfere with security tools scanning or reporting information. Adversaries may also disable updates to prevent the latest security patches from reaching tools on victim systems.

Adversaries may also tamper with artifacts deployed and utilized by security tools. Security tools may make dynamic changes to system components in order to maintain visibility into specific events. For example, security products may load their own modules and/or modify those loaded by processes to facilitate data collection. Similar to Indicator Blocking (T1562.006), adversaries may unhook or otherwise modify these features added by tools (especially those that exist in userland or are otherwise potentially accessible to adversaries) to avoid detection. Alternatively, they may add new directories to an endpoint detection and response (EDR) tool’s exclusion list, enabling them to hide malicious files via File/Path Exclusions (T1564.012).

Adversaries may also focus on specific applications such as Sysmon. For example, the “Start” and “Enable” values in ```HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon-Operational``` may be modified to tamper with and potentially disable Sysmon logging. 

On network devices, adversaries may attempt to skip digital signature verification checks by altering startup configuration files and effectively disabling firmware verification that typically occurs at boot.

In cloud environments, tools disabled by adversaries may include cloud monitoring agents that report back to services such as AWS CloudWatch or Google Cloud Monitor.

Furthermore, although defensive tools may have anti-tampering mechanisms, adversaries may abuse tools such as legitimate rootkit removal kits to impair and/or disable these tools. For example, adversaries have used tools such as GMER to find and shut down hidden processes and antivirus software on infected systems.

Additionally, adversaries may exploit legitimate drivers from anti-virus software to gain access to kernel space (i.e. Exploitation for Privilege Escalation (T1068)), which may lead to bypassing anti-tampering features.

## Parent Technique
- Impair Defenses (T1562)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Turla (G0010)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Agrius (G1030)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Play (G1040)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- TA505 (G0092)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- Akira (G1024)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- Putter Panda (G0024)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Rocke (G0106)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments to see if security tools/services are killed or stop running. Monitor Registry edits for modifications to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools. Monitoring for changes to other known features used by deployed security tools may also expose malicious activity.

Lack of expected log events may be suspicious.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Sensor Health: Host Status (DS0013): 
Lack of expected log events may be suspicious. Monitor for telemetry that provides context for modification or deletion of information related to security software processes or services such as Windows Defender definition files in Windows and System log files in Linux.

#### Process: Process Termination (DS0009): 
Monitor processes for unexpected termination related to security tools/services. Specifically, before execution of ransomware, monitor for rootkit tools, such as GMER, PowerTool or TDSSKiller, that may detect and terminate hidden processes and the host antivirus software.


#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
In an attempt to avoid detection after compromising a machine, threat actors often try to disable Windows Defender. This is often done using “sc” [service control], a legitimate tool provided by Microsoft for managing services. This action interferes with event detection and may lead to a security event going undetected, thereby potentially leading to further compromise of the network.

Note: Though this analytic is utilizing Event ID 1 for process creation, the arguments are specifically looking for the use of service control for querying or trying to stop Windows Defender.

Analytic 1 - Detecting Tampering of Windows Defender Command Prompt

```(source="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image="C:\\Windows\\System32\\sc.exe" (CommandLine="sc *config*" OR CommandLine="sc *stop*" OR CommandLine="sc *query*" )```

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Monitor for telemetry that provides context of security software services being disabled or modified. In cloud environments, monitor virtual machine logs for the status of cloud security agents. Spyware and malware remain a serious problem and Microsoft developed security services, Windows Defender and Windows Firewall, to combat this threat. In the event Windows Defender or Windows Firewall is turned off, administrators should correct the issue immediately to prevent the possibility of infection or further infection and investigate to determine if caused by crash or user manipulation.
Note: Windows Event code 7036 from the System log identifies if a service has stopped or started. This analytic looks for “Windows Defender” or “Windows Firewall” that has stopped.

Analytic 1 - User Activity from Stopping Windows Defensive Services

```(source="*WinEventLog:System" EventCode="7036") ServiceName="*Windows Defender*" OR ServiceName="*Windows Firewall*" AND ServiceName="*stopped*"```

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to Windows Registry keys and/or values related to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools such as HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows Defender.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for the execution of commands and arguments associated with disabling or modification of security software processes or services such as ```Set-MpPreference-DisableScriptScanning 1``` in Windows,```sudo spctl --master-disable``` in macOS, and ```setenforce 0``` in Linux. Furthermore, on Windows monitor for the execution of taskkill.exe or Net Stop commands which may deactivate antivirus software and other security systems. 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Deletion (DS0024): 
Monitor for deletion of Windows Registry keys and/or values related to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools such as HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\AMSI\Providers.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for unusual/suspicious driver activity, especially regarding EDR and drivers associated with security tools as well as those that may be abused to disable security products.

