# Service Execution (T1569.002)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse the Windows service control manager to execute malicious commands or payloads. The Windows service control manager (```services.exe```) is an interface to manage and manipulate services. The service control manager is accessible to users via GUI components as well as system utilities such as ```sc.exe``` and Net.

PsExec can also be used to execute commands or payloads via a temporary Windows service created through the service control manager API. Tools such as PsExec and ```sc.exe``` can accept remote servers as arguments and may be used to conduct remote execution.

Adversaries may leverage these mechanisms to execute malicious content. This can be done by either executing a new or modified service. This technique is the execution used in conjunction with Windows Service (T1543.003) during service persistence or privilege escalation.

## Parent Technique
- System Services (T1569)

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- Chimera (G0114)
- APT39 (G0087)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- APT41 (G0096)
- Silence (G0091)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Blue Mockingbird (G0108)
- APT32 (G0050)
- BlackByte (G1043)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- APT38 (G0082)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Behavior Prevention on Endpoint (M1040)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Changes to service Registry entries and command line invocation of tools capable of modifying services that do not correlate with known software, patch cycles, etc., may be suspicious. If a service is used only to execute a binary or script and not to persist, then it will likely be changed back to its original form shortly after the service is restarted so the service is not left broken, as is the case with the common administrator tool PsExec.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes made to windows registry keys and/or values that may abuse the Windows service control manager to execute malicious commands or payloads.

Analytic 1 - Registry changes related to service execution.

``` sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=Sysmon EventCode=13 OR EventCode=4657
| search registry_path IN ("HKLM\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Services*")
| where registry_value != "*legitimate_software_registry*"  // Filter out common services
```

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Service: Service Creation (DS0019): 
Monitor newly constructed services that abuse control manager to execute malicious commands or payloads.

Analytic 1 - Suspicious Service Creation

```sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=WinEventLog:System EventCode=4697 OR EventCode=7045
| table _time, user, service_name, service_file_name, process_id
| where service_file_name != "*legitimate_software_path*"  // Exclude legitimate services
 ```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may abuse the Windows service control manager to execute malicious commands or payloads.

Events 4688 (Microsoft Windows Security Auditing) and 1 (Microsoft Windows Sysmon) provide context of Windows processes creation that can be used to implement this detection.

This detection is based on uncommon process and parent process relationships. Service Control Manager spawning command shell is a good starting point. Add more suspicious relationships based on the reality of your network environment.

In order to reduce false positives, you can also filter the CommandLine event field using parameters such as /c which carries out the command specified by the parent process.

Analytic 1 - Service Execution

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") | WHERE Image LIKE "*services.exe" AND Image LIKE "*cmd.exe"```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse the Windows service control manager to execute malicious commands or payloads.

Analytic 1- Commands abusing Windows service control manager.

```sourcetype=WinEventLog:Security OR sourcetype=Powershell OR sourcetype=Sysmon EventCode IN (1,4688,4104) 
| search command_line IN ("sc.exe*", "net start*", "net stop*", "psexec.exe*")
| where user!="SYSTEM"  // Exclude common system-level activities```

