# Resource Forking (T1564.009)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or executables to evade detection and bypass security applications. A resource fork provides applications a structured way to store resources such as thumbnail images, menu definitions, icons, dialog boxes, and code. Usage of a resource fork is identifiable when displaying a file’s extended attributes, using ```ls -l@``` or ```xattr -l``` commands. Resource forks have been deprecated and replaced with the application bundle structure. Non-localized resources are placed at the top level directory of an application bundle, while localized resources are placed in the ```/Resources``` folder.

Adversaries can use resource forks to hide malicious data that may otherwise be stored directly in files. Adversaries can execute content with an attached resource fork, at a specified offset, that is moved to an executable location then invoked. Resource fork content may also be obfuscated/encrypted until execution.

## Parent Technique
- Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Application Developer Guidance (M1013)

## Detection
Identify files with the ```com.apple.ResourceFork``` extended attribute and large data amounts stored in resource forks. 

Monitor command-line activity leveraging the use of resource forks, especially those immediately followed by potentially malicious activity such as creating network connections. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Identify files with the ```com.apple.ResourceFork``` extended attribute and large data amounts stored in resource forks.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or executables to evade detection and bypass security applications.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that are leveraging the use of resource forks, especially those immediately followed by potentially malicious activity such as creating network connections.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files that may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or executables to evade detection and bypass security applications.

