# Bind Mounts (T1564.013)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse bind mounts on file structures to hide their activity and artifacts from native utilities. A bind mount maps a directory or file from one location on the filesystem to another, similar to a shortcut on Windows. It’s commonly used to provide access to specific files or directories across different environments, such as inside containers or chroot environments, and requires sudo access. 

Adversaries may use bind mounts to map either an empty directory or a benign `/proc` directory to a malicious process’s `/proc` directory. Using the commands `mount –o bind /proc/benign-process /proc/malicious-process` (or `mount –B`), the malicious process's `/proc` directory is overlayed with the contents of a benign process's `/proc` directory. When system utilities query process activity, such as `ps` and `top`, the kernel follows the bind mount and presents the benign directory’s contents instead of the malicious process's actual `/proc` directory. As a result, these utilities display information that appears to come from the benign process, effectively hiding the malicious process's metadata, executable, or other artifacts from detection.

## Parent Technique
- Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for the creation of PID directories under `/proc` with unusual characteristics. For example, these directories should typically be read-only; the creation of a directory with write permissions may indicate unusual activity.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Configure auditd rules to monitor use of the `/bin/mount` command, especially with relation to the `/proc` directory. 

Analytic 1 - Use of Mount with bind arguments targeting /proc/ paths 

``` index=linux_logs source="/var/log/audit/audit.log"
| eval syscall=coalesce(syscall, "unknown"), exe=coalesce(exe, "unknown")
| search syscall="mount" exe="/bin/mount" (msg="*bind*" OR msg="*bind,rw*")
| rex field=msg "a0=\"(?<source_path>[^\"]+)\" a1=\"(?<target_path>[^\"]+)\""
| where like(source_path, "/proc/%") AND like(target_path, "/proc/%")
| eval is_suspicious=if(match(target_path, "/proc/[1-9][0-9]*") AND NOT cidrmatch(source_path, target_path), 1, 0)
| stats count by exe, source_path, target_path, uid, pid, is_suspicious
| where is_suspicious=1 ```

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Configure auditd rules to monitor use of the `mount` system call, especially with respect to the `/proc` directory. Bind mount activity invokes `mount()` with the `MS_BIND` flag. 

Analytic 1 - Using eBPF or sys call logging 

``` index=syscalls source="/var/log/audit/audit.log"
| search syscall="mount"
| regex args=".*bind.*"
| eval suspicious=if(like(args, "%/proc/%") AND like(args, "%bind%"), 1, 0)
| stats count by pid, exe, args, uid, suspicious
| where suspicious=1 ```

