# Disk Content Wipe (T1561.001)

## Description
Adversaries may erase the contents of storage devices on specific systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

Adversaries may partially or completely overwrite the contents of a storage device rendering the data irrecoverable through the storage interface. Instead of wiping specific disk structures or files, adversaries with destructive intent may wipe arbitrary portions of disk content. To wipe disk content, adversaries may acquire direct access to the hard drive in order to overwrite arbitrarily sized portions of disk with random data. Adversaries have also been observed leveraging third-party drivers like RawDisk to directly access disk content. This behavior is distinct from Data Destruction (T1485) because sections of the disk are erased instead of individual files.

To maximize impact on the target organization in operations where network-wide availability interruption is the goal, malware used for wiping disk content may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging additional techniques like Valid Accounts (T1078), OS Credential Dumping (T1003), and SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002).

## Parent Technique
- Disk Wipe (T1561)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)

## Mitigations
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection
Look for attempts to read/write to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector or BIOS parameter block/superblock. Monitor for direct access read/write attempts using the ```\\\\.\\``` notation. Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity.

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for `erase` commands that delete critical configuration files.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Drive: Drive Modification (DS0016): 
Monitor for changes made to drive letters or mount points of data storage devices for attempts to read to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector, master boot record, disk partition table, or BIOS parameter block/superblock.

#### Drive: Drive Access (DS0016): 
Monitor for newly constructed drive letters or mount points to a data storage device for attempts to write to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector, master boot record, disk partition table, or BIOS parameter block/superblock.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity may erase the contents of storage devices on specific systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may erase the contents of storage devices on specific systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may erase the contents of storage devices on specific systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

