# Data Manipulation (T1565)

## Description
Adversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data in order to influence external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, or decision making.

The type of modification and the impact it will have depends on the target application and process as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.

## Sub-techniques
- Stored Data Manipulation (T1565.001)
- Runtime Data Manipulation (T1565.003)
- Transmitted Data Manipulation (T1565.002)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- FIN13 (G1016)

## Mitigations
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Remote Data Storage (M1029)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Where applicable, inspect important file hashes, locations, and modifications for suspicious/unexpected values. With some critical processes involving transmission of data, manual or out-of-band integrity checking may be useful for identifying manipulated data.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for API calls associated with altering data. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor for networks that solicits and obtains the configuration information of the queried device. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for newly constructed files in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor for network traffic originating from unknown/unexpected hardware devices.

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of a file in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity 

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for unexpected files with manipulated data in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, etc that would aid in the manipulation of data to hide activity

