# Disk Structure Wipe (T1561.002)

## Description
Adversaries may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting specific critical systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources. 

Adversaries may attempt to render the system unable to boot by overwriting critical data located in structures such as the master boot record (MBR) or partition table. The data contained in disk structures may include the initial executable code for loading an operating system or the location of the file system partitions on disk. If this information is not present, the computer will not be able to load an operating system during the boot process, leaving the computer unavailable. Disk Structure Wipe (T1561.002) may be performed in isolation, or along with Disk Content Wipe (T1561.001) if all sectors of a disk are wiped.

On a network devices, adversaries may reformat the file system using Network Device CLI (T1059.008) commands such as `format`.

To maximize impact on the target organization, malware designed for destroying disk structures may have worm-like features to propagate across a network by leveraging other techniques like Valid Accounts (T1078), OS Credential Dumping (T1003), and SMB/Windows Admin Shares (T1021.002).

## Parent Technique
- Disk Wipe (T1561)

## Tactics
- Impact (TA0040)

## Related Groups
- APT38 (G0082)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- APT37 (G0067)

## Mitigations
- Data Backup (M1053)

## Detection
Look for attempts to read/write to sensitive locations like the master boot record and the disk partition table. Monitor for direct access read/write attempts using the ```\\\\.\\``` notation. Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity.

For network infrastructure devices, collect AAA logging to monitor for `format` commands being run to erase the file structure and prevent recovery of the device.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting specific critical systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

#### Drive: Drive Modification (DS0016): 
Monitor for changes made to drive letters or mount points of data storage devices for attempts to read to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector, master boot record, disk partition table, or BIOS parameter block/superblock.

#### Drive: Drive Access (DS0016): 
Monitor for newly constructed drive letters or mount points to a data storage device for attempts to write to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector, master boot record, disk partition table, or BIOS parameter block/superblock.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting specific critical systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting specific critical systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.

