# Dynamic Resolution (T1568)

## Description
Adversaries may dynamically establish connections to command and control infrastructure to evade common detections and remediations. This may be achieved by using malware that shares a common algorithm with the infrastructure the adversary uses to receive the malware's communications. These calculations can be used to dynamically adjust parameters such as the domain name, IP address, or port number the malware uses for command and control.

Adversaries may use dynamic resolution for the purpose of Fallback Channels (T1008). When contact is lost with the primary command and control server malware may employ dynamic resolution as a means to reestablishing command and control.

## Sub-techniques
- Domain Generation Algorithms (T1568.002)
- Fast Flux DNS (T1568.001)
- DNS Calculation (T1568.003)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- RedEcho (G1042)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Transparent Tribe (G0134)
- BITTER (G1002)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Restrict Web-Based Content (M1021)

## Detection
Detecting dynamically generated C2 can be challenging due to the number of different algorithms, constantly evolving malware families, and the increasing complexity of the algorithms. There are multiple approaches to detecting a pseudo-randomly generated domain name, including using frequency analysis, Markov chains, entropy, proportion of dictionary words, ratio of vowels to other characters, and more . CDN domains may trigger these detections due to the format of their domain names. In addition to detecting algorithm generated domains based on the name, another more general approach for detecting a suspicious domain is to check for recently registered names or for rarely visited domains.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts. 

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

