# Hidden Window (T1564.003)

## Description
Adversaries may use hidden windows to conceal malicious activity from the plain sight of users. In some cases, windows that would typically be displayed when an application carries out an operation can be hidden. This may be utilized by system administrators to avoid disrupting user work environments when carrying out administrative tasks. 

Adversaries may abuse these functionalities to hide otherwise visible windows from users so as not to alert the user to adversary activity on the system.

On macOS, the configurations for how applications run are listed in property list (plist) files. One of the tags in these files can be ```apple.awt.UIElement```, which allows for Java applications to prevent the application's icon from appearing in the Dock. A common use for this is when applications run in the system tray, but don't also want to show up in the Dock.

Similarly, on Windows there are a variety of features in scripting languages, such as PowerShell (T1059.001), Jscript, and Visual Basic (T1059.005) to make windows hidden. One example of this is ```powershell.exe -WindowStyle Hidden```.

The Windows Registry can also be edited to hide application windows from the current user. For example, by setting the `WindowPosition` subkey in the `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Console\%SystemRoot%_System32_WindowsPowerShell_v1.0_PowerShell.exe` Registry key to a maximum value, PowerShell windows will open off screen and be hidden.

In addition, Windows supports the `CreateDesktop()` API that can create a hidden desktop window with its own corresponding ```explorer.exe``` process.  All applications running on the hidden desktop window, such as a hidden VNC (hVNC) session, will be invisible to other desktops windows.

## Parent Technique
- Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT3 (G0022)
- APT28 (G0007)
- APT19 (G0073)
- Deep Panda (G0009)
- Gorgon Group (G0078)
- CopyKittens (G0052)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- Gamaredon Group (G0047)
- DarkHydrus (G0079)
- ToddyCat (G1022)
- Nomadic Octopus (G0133)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Magic Hound (G0059)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Limit Software Installation (M1033)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions indicative of hidden windows. In Windows, enable and configure event logging and PowerShell logging to check for the hidden window style. In MacOS, plist files are ASCII text files with a specific format, so they're relatively easy to parse. File monitoring can check for the ```apple.awt.UIElement``` or any other suspicious plist tag in plist files and flag them.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to files that may use hidden windows to conceal malicious activity from the plain sight of users. In MacOS, plist files are ASCII text files with a specific format, so they're relatively easy to parse. File monitoring can check for the ```apple.awt.UIElement``` or any other suspicious plist tag in plist files and flag them.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may use hidden windows to conceal malicious activity from the plain sight of users. In Windows, enable and configure event logging and PowerShell logging to check for the hidden window style.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may use hidden windows to conceal malicious activity from the plain sight of users. For example, monitor suspicious windows explorer execution – such as an additional ```explorer.exe``` holding a handle to an unknown desktop – that may be used for hidden malicious activity via hVNC. 

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor for changes in Registry keys such as ` HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Console\%SystemRoot%_System32_WindowsPowerShell_v1.0_PowerShell.exe` and  ` HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Console\%SystemRoot%_SysWOW64_WindowsPowerShell_v1.0_PowerShell.exe `, especially setting the subkey `WindowPosition` to a maximum value or the subkeys `ScreenBufferSize` and `WindowSize` to 1. 

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

