# Archive via Utility (T1560.001)

## Description
Adversaries may use utilities to compress and/or encrypt collected data prior to exfiltration. Many utilities include functionalities to compress, encrypt, or otherwise package data into a format that is easier/more secure to transport.

Adversaries may abuse various utilities to compress or encrypt data before exfiltration. Some third party utilities may be preinstalled, such as ```tar``` on Linux and macOS or ```zip``` on Windows systems. 

On Windows, ```diantz``` or ``` makecab``` may be used to package collected files into a cabinet (.cab) file. ```diantz``` may also be used to download and compress files from remote locations (i.e. Remote Data Staging (T1074.002)). ```xcopy``` on Windows can copy files and directories with a variety of options. Additionally, adversaries may use certutil to Base64 encode collected data before exfiltration. 

Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform similar activities.

## Parent Technique
- Archive Collected Data (T1560)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Related Groups
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- menuPass (G0045)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- APT33 (G0064)
- Fox Kitten (G0117)
- CopyKittens (G0052)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- APT1 (G0006)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Play (G1040)
- Chimera (G0114)
- Gallmaker (G0084)
- Sea Turtle (G1041)
- APT39 (G0087)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Agrius (G1030)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- APT41 (G0096)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Turla (G0010)
- Sowbug (G0054)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- APT3 (G0022)
- FIN8 (G0061)
- Ke3chang (G0004)
- Lotus Blossom (G0030)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- INC Ransom (G1032)
- Akira (G1024)
- ToddyCat (G1022)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Common utilities that may be present on the system or brought in by an adversary may be detectable through process monitoring and monitoring for command-line arguments for known archival utilities. This may yield a significant number of benign events, depending on how systems in the environment are typically used.

Consider detecting writing of files with extensions and/or headers associated with compressed or encrypted file types. Detection efforts may focus on follow-on exfiltration activity, where compressed or encrypted files can be detected in transit with a network intrusion detection or data loss prevention system analyzing file headers.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that aid in compression or encrypting data that is collected prior to exfiltration, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip. Before Exfiltration (TA0010) that an adversary has Collection (TA0009), it is very likely that a Archive Collected Data (T1560) will be created, so that transfer times are minimized and fewer files are transmitted. There is variety between the tools used to compress data, but the command line usage and context of archiving tools, such as ZIP, RAR, and 7ZIP, should be monitored.
In addition to looking for RAR or 7z program names, command line usage of 7Zip or RAR can be detected with the flag usage of “\* a \*”. This is helpful, as adversaries may change program names.

Note: This analytic looks for the command line argument a, which is used by RAR. However, there may be other programs that have this as a legitimate argument and may need to be filtered out.

Analytic 1 - Command Line Usage of Archiving Software

``` (source="WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") CommandLine="* a *"```

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments for actions that will aid in compression or encrypting data that is collected prior to exfiltration, such as tar. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor newly constructed files being written with extensions and/or headers associated with compressed or encrypted file types. Detection efforts may focus on follow-on exfiltration activity, where compressed or encrypted files can be detected in transit with a network intrusion detection or data loss prevention system analyzing file headers.

