# NTFS File Attributes (T1564.004)

## Description
Adversaries may use NTFS file attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. Every New Technology File System (NTFS) formatted partition contains a Master File Table (MFT) that maintains a record for every file/directory on the partition.  Within MFT entries are file attributes,  such as Extended Attributes (EA) and Data [known as Alternate Data Streams (ADSs) when more than one Data attribute is present], that can be used to store arbitrary data (and even complete files).    

Adversaries may store malicious data or binaries in file attribute metadata instead of directly in files. This may be done to evade some defenses, such as static indicator scanning tools and anti-virus.  

## Parent Technique
- Hide Artifacts (T1564)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT32 (G0050)

## Mitigations
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)

## Detection
Forensic techniques exist to identify information stored in NTFS EA.  Monitor calls to the ```ZwSetEaFile``` and ```ZwQueryEaFile``` Windows API functions as well as binaries used to interact with EA,   and consider regularly scanning for the presence of modified information. 

There are many ways to create and interact with ADSs using Windows utilities. Monitor for operations (execution, copies, etc.) with file names that contain colons. This syntax (ex: ```file.ext:ads[.ext]```) is commonly associated with ADSs.    For a more exhaustive list of utilities that can be used to execute and create ADSs, see https://gist.github.com/api0cradle/cdd2d0d0ec9abb686f0e89306e277b8f.

The Streams tool of Sysinternals can be used to uncover files with ADSs. The ```dir /r``` command can also be used to display ADSs.  Many PowerShell commands (such as Get-Item, Set-Item, Remove-Item, and Get-ChildItem) can also accept a ```-stream``` parameter to interact with ADSs.  

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
The Streams tool of Sysinternals can be used to uncover files with ADSs. The ```dir /r``` command can also be used to display ADSs.  Many PowerShell commands (such as Get-Item, Set-Item, Remove-Item, and Get-ChildItem) can also accept a ```-stream``` parameter to interact with ADSs.  

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
There are many ways to create and interact with ADSs using Windows utilities. Monitor for operations (execution, copies, etc.) with file names that contain colons. This syntax (ex: ```file.ext:ads[.ext]```) is commonly associated with ADSs.    For a more exhaustive list of utilities that can be used to execute and create ADSs, see https://gist.github.com/api0cradle/cdd2d0d0ec9abb686f0e89306e277b8f.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for process execution that may use NTFS file attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. 

Analytic 1 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System Utilities (Powershell)

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image= "C:\\Windows\\*\\powershell.exe" | regex CommandLine= "Invoke-CimMethod\s+-ClassName\s+Win32_Process\s+-MethodName\s+Create.*\b(\w+(\.\w+)?):(\w+(\.\w+)?)|-ep bypass\s+-\s+<.*\b(\w+(\.\w+)?):(\w+(\.\w+)?)|-command.*Get-Content.*-Stream.*Set-Content.*start-process .*(\w+(\.\w+)?)"```

Analytic 2 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System Utilities (WMIC)

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image= "C:\\Windows\\*\\wmic.exe" | regex CommandLine= "process call create.*\"(\w+(\.\w+)?):(\w+(\.\w+)?)"```

Analytic 3 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System Utilities (rundll32)

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image= "C:\\Windows\\*\\rundll32.exe" | regex CommandLine= "\"?(\w+(\.\w+)?):(\w+(\.\w+)?)?\"?,\w+\|(advpack\.dll\|ieadvpack\.dll),RegisterOCX\s+(\w+\.\w+):(\w+(\.\w+)?)\|(shdocvw\.dll\|ieframe\.dll),OpenURL.*(\w+\.\w+):(\w+(\.\w+)?)"```

Analytic 4 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System Utilities (wscript/cscript)

```(source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") Image= "C:\\Windows\\*\\wscript.exe" OR Image= "C:\\Windows\\*\\cscript.exe)" | regex CommandLine= "(?<!\/)\b\w+(\.\w+)?:\w+(\.\w+)?$"```

#### File: File Metadata (DS0022): 
Monitor for contextual data about a file, which may include information such as name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, may use NTFS file attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. Forensic techniques exist to identify information stored in NTFS EA. 

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor calls to the ```ZwSetEaFile``` and ```ZwQueryEaFile``` Windows API functions as well as binaries used to interact with EA,   and consider regularly scanning for the presence of modified information. 

