# Impair Defenses (T1562)

## Description
Adversaries may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms. This not only involves impairing preventative defenses, such as firewalls and anti-virus, but also detection capabilities that defenders can use to audit activity and identify malicious behavior. This may also span both native defenses as well as supplemental capabilities installed by users and administrators.

Adversaries may also impair routine operations that contribute to defensive hygiene, such as blocking users from logging out, preventing a system from shutting down, or disabling or modifying the update process. Adversaries could also target event aggregation and analysis mechanisms, or otherwise disrupt these procedures by altering other system components. These restrictions can further enable malicious operations as well as the continued propagation of incidents.



## Sub-techniques
- Safe Mode Boot (T1562.009)
- Disable Windows Event Logging (T1562.002)
- Disable or Modify System Firewall (T1562.004)
- Disable or Modify Linux Audit System (T1562.012)
- Indicator Blocking (T1562.006)
- Disable or Modify Cloud Firewall (T1562.007)
- Downgrade Attack (T1562.010)
- Impair Command History Logging (T1562.003)
- Disable or Modify Tools (T1562.001)
- Spoof Security Alerting (T1562.011)
- Disable or Modify Cloud Logs (T1562.008)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- BlackByte (G1043)
- Magic Hound (G0059)

## Mitigations
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Restrict File and Directory Permissions (M1022)
- Restrict Registry Permissions (M1024)
- Audit (M1047)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Monitor processes and command-line arguments to see if security tools or logging services are killed or stop running. Monitor Registry edits for modifications to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools.  Lack of log events may be suspicious.

Monitor environment variables and APIs that can be leveraged to disable security measures.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor changes made to configuration files that contain settings for logging and defensive tools.

#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Disable (DS0025): 
Monitor logs for API calls to disable logging. In AWS, monitor for: ```StopLogging``` and ```DeleteTrail```. In GCP, monitor for: ```google.logging.v2.ConfigServiceV2.UpdateSink```. In Azure, monitor for ```az monitor diagnostic-settings delete```. Additionally, a sudden loss of a log source may indicate that it has been disabled.

#### Firewall: Firewall Rule Modification (DS0018): 
Monitor for changes made to firewall rules for unexpected modifications to allow/block specific network traffic that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent.

#### Process: Process Modification (DS0009): 
Using another process or third-party tools, monitor for modifications or access to system processes associated with logging.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Deletion (DS0024): 
Monitor for unexpected deletion of windows registry keys that that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Process: Process Termination (DS0009): 
Monitor for unexpected deletions of a running process (ex: Sysmon EID 5 or Windows EID 4689) that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Monitor contextual data about a service/daemon, which may include information such as name, service executable, start type that that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such as environment variables, image name, user/owner, or other information.

#### Cloud Service: Cloud Service Modification (DS0025): 
Monitor changes made to cloud services for unexpected modifications to settings and/or data.

#### User Account: User Account Modification (DS0002): 
Monitor for changes to account settings associated with users/tenants that may impact defensive logging capabilities, such as the `Update User` and `Change User License` events in the Azure AD audit log.

#### File: File Deletion (DS0022): 
Monitor for missing log files hosts and services with known active periods.

#### Sensor Health: Host Status (DS0013): 
Monitor logging, messaging, and other artifacts highlighting the health of host sensors (ex: metrics, errors, and/or exceptions from logging applications) that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms. Lack of log events may be suspicious.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for the abnormal execution of API functions associated with system logging. For example, Bitlocker can be disabled by calling `DisableKeyProtectors` with `DisableCount` to 0 for protected drives.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Windows Registry: Windows Registry Key Modification (DS0024): 
Monitor Registry edits for modifications to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools and settings. For example, HVCI (Hypervisor-Protected Code Integrity) can be disabled by modifying the registry key `HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows Defender` to 0, allowing the system to run custom unsigned kernel code.

#### Driver: Driver Load (DS0027): 
Monitor for unusual/suspicious driver activity, especially regarding EDR and drivers associated with security tools as well as those that may be abused to disable security products.

#### Firewall: Firewall Disable (DS0018): 
Monitor for changes in the status of the system firewall such as Windows Security Auditing events 5025 (The Windows firewall service has been stopped) and 5034 (The Windows firewall driver was stopped).

