# Downgrade Attack (T1562.010)

## Description
Adversaries may downgrade or use a version of system features that may be outdated, vulnerable, and/or does not support updated security controls. Downgrade attacks typically take advantage of a system’s backward compatibility to force it into less secure modes of operation. 

Adversaries may downgrade and use various less-secure versions of features of a system, such as Command and Scripting Interpreter (T1059)s or even network protocols that can be abused to enable Adversary-in-the-Middle (T1557) or Network Sniffing (T1040). For example, PowerShell (T1059.001) versions 5+ includes Script Block Logging (SBL), which can record executed script content. However, adversaries may attempt to execute a previous version of PowerShell that does not support SBL with the intent to Impair Defenses (T1562) while running malicious scripts that may have otherwise been detected.

Adversaries may similarly target network traffic to downgrade from an encrypted HTTPS connection to an unsecured HTTP connection that exposes network data in clear text. On Windows systems, adversaries may downgrade the boot manager to a vulnerable version that bypasses Secure Boot, granting the ability to disable various operating system security mechanisms.

## Parent Technique
- Impair Defenses (T1562)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Monitor for commands or other activity that may be indicative of attempts to abuse older or deprecated technologies (ex: ```powershell –v 2```). Also monitor for other abnormal events, such as execution of and/or processes spawning from a version of a tool that is not expected in the environment.

Monitor for Windows event ID (EID) 400, specifically the ```EngineVersion``` field which shows the version of PowerShell running and may highlight a malicious downgrade attack.

Monitor network data to detect cases where HTTP is used instead of HTTPS.

Monitor executed commands and arguments that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms. Bitlocker can be disabled by calling DisableKeyProtectors and setting DisableCount to 0.

Monitor for newly constructed files that may configure system settings to automatically execute a program during system boot or logon to maintain persistence or gain higher-level privileges on compromised systems. Adversaries can construct new files in the EFI System Partition.

Monitor for changes made to Windows Registry keys and/or values related to services and startup programs that correspond to security tools such as HKLM:\SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows Defender. HVCI (Hypervisor-Protected Code Integrity) can be disabled by modifying the registry key to 0, allowing the system to run custom unsigned kernel code.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for commands or other activity that may be indicative of attempts to abuse older or deprecated technologies (ex: ```powershell –v 2```). Also monitor executed commands and arguments that may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or disable defensive mechanisms.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may downgrade or use a version of system features that may be outdated, vulnerable, and/or does not support updated security controls such as logging.

#### Process: Process Metadata (DS0009): 
Monitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such as environment variables, image name, user/owner, or other information that may reveal use of a version of system features that may be outdated, vulnerable, and/or does not support updated security controls such as logging. For example, monitoring for Windows event ID (EID) 400, specifically the ```EngineVersion``` field which shows the version of PowerShell running, may highlight a malicious downgrade attack.

