# DLL (T1574.001)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse dynamic-link library files (DLLs) in order to achieve persistence, escalate privileges, and evade defenses. DLLs are libraries that contain code and data that can be simultaneously utilized by multiple programs. While DLLs are not malicious by nature, they can be abused through mechanisms such as side-loading, hijacking search order, and phantom DLL hijacking.

Specific ways DLLs are abused by adversaries include:

### DLL Sideloading
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads by planting and then invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).

Side-loading positions both the victim application and malicious payload(s) alongside each other. Adversaries likely use side-loading as a means of masking actions they perform under a legitimate, trusted, and potentially elevated system or software process. Benign executables used to side-load payloads may not be flagged during delivery and/or execution. Adversary payloads may also be encrypted/packed or otherwise obfuscated until loaded into the memory of the trusted process.

Adversaries may also side-load other packages, such as BPLs (Borland Package Library).

### DLL Search Order Hijacking
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order that Windows uses to load DLLs. This search order is a sequence of special and standard search locations that a program checks when loading a DLL. An adversary can plant a trojan DLL in a directory that will be prioritized by the DLL search order over the location of a legitimate library. This will cause Windows to load the malicious DLL when it is called for by the victim program.

### DLL Redirection
Adversaries may directly modify the search order via DLL redirection, which after being enabled (in the Registry or via the creation of a redirection file) may cause a program to load a DLL from a different location.

### Phantom DLL Hijacking
Adversaries may leverage phantom DLL hijacking by targeting references to non-existent DLL files. They may be able to load their own malicious DLL by planting it with the correct name in the location of the missing module.

### DLL Substitution
Adversaries may target existing, valid DLL files and substitute them with their own malicious DLLs, planting them with the same name and in the same location as the valid DLL file.

Programs that fall victim to DLL hijacking may appear to behave normally because malicious DLLs may be configured to also load the legitimate DLLs they were meant to replace, evading defenses.

Remote DLL hijacking can occur when a program sets its current directory to a remote location, such as a Web share, before loading a DLL.

If a valid DLL is configured to run at a higher privilege level, then the adversary-controlled DLL that is loaded will also be executed at the higher level. In this case, the technique could be used for privilege escalation.

## Parent Technique
- Hijack Execution Flow (T1574)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Chimera (G0114)
- Cinnamon Tempest (G1021)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- RTM (G0048)
- Tonto Team (G0131)
- Patchwork (G0040)
- Whitefly (G0107)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Storm-1811 (G1046)
- Evilnum (G0120)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- LuminousMoth (G1014)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)
- APT3 (G0022)
- BlackTech (G0098)
- FIN13 (G1016)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- Naikon (G0019)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Threat Group-3390 (G0027)
- BackdoorDiplomacy (G0135)
- APT19 (G0073)
- Sidewinder (G0121)
- APT41 (G0096)
- menuPass (G0045)

## Mitigations
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Restrict Library Loading (M1044)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Audit (M1047)
- Application Developer Guidance (M1013)

## Detection
Monitor file systems for moving, renaming, replacing, or modifying DLLs. Changes in the set of DLLs that are loaded by a process (compared with past behavior) that do not correlate with known software, patches, etc., are suspicious. Monitor DLLs loaded into a process and detect DLLs that have the same file name but abnormal paths. Modifications to or creation of `.manifest` and `.local` redirection files that do not correlate with software updates are suspicious.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for changes made to `.manifest` / `.local` redirection files, or file systems for moving, renaming, replacing, or modifying DLLs. Changes in the set of DLLs that are loaded by a process (compared with past behavior) that do not correlate with known software, patches, etc., are suspicious. To detect DLL substitution, monitor for changes made to DLLs in trusted locations, such as `C:\Windows\System32`. 

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly constructed processes for unusual activity (e.g., a process that does not use the network begins to do so) as well as the introduction of new files/programs.

#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor DLL/PE file events, specifically creation of these binary files as well as the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a process (particularly known malicious ones), or that have the same file name but abnormal paths (e.g., loaded from a user-writable directory rather than a system one). Monitor DLLs loaded from remote locations. 

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor newly constructed `.manifest` and `.local` redirection files that do not correlate with software updates. Monitor for the creation of phantom DLL files. 

