# Asymmetric Cryptography (T1573.002)

## Description
Adversaries may employ a known asymmetric encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traffic rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public key cryptography, uses a keypair per party: one public that can be freely distributed, and one private. Due to how the keys are generated, the sender encrypts data with the receiver’s public key and the receiver decrypts the data with their private key. This ensures that only the intended recipient can read the encrypted data. Common public key encryption algorithms include RSA and ElGamal.

For efficiency, many protocols (including SSL/TLS) use symmetric cryptography once a connection is established, but use asymmetric cryptography to establish or transmit a key. As such, these protocols are classified as Asymmetric Cryptography (T1573.002).

## Parent Technique
- Encrypted Channel (T1573)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- RedEcho (G1042)
- OilRig (G0049)
- Cobalt Group (G0080)
- APT42 (G1044)
- FIN6 (G0037)
- FIN8 (G0061)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- SSL/TLS Inspection (M1020)

## Detection
SSL/TLS inspection is one way of detecting command and control traffic within some encrypted communication channels. SSL/TLS inspection does come with certain risks that should be considered before implementing to avoid potential security issues such as incomplete certificate validation.

In general, analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

