# Symmetric Cryptography (T1573.001)

## Description
Adversaries may employ a known symmetric encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traffic rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Symmetric encryption algorithms use the same key for plaintext encryption and ciphertext decryption. Common symmetric encryption algorithms include AES, DES, 3DES, Blowfish, and RC4.

## Parent Technique
- Encrypted Channel (T1573)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Darkhotel (G0012)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- RedCurl (G1039)
- Stealth Falcon (G0038)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- Higaisa (G0126)
- Inception (G0100)
- APT33 (G0064)
- APT28 (G0007)
- BRONZE BUTLER (G0060)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)

## Detection
With symmetric encryption, it may be possible to obtain the algorithm and key from samples and use them to decode network traffic to detect malware communications signatures.

In general, analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

