# Create Cloud Instance (T1578.002)

## Description
An adversary may create a new instance or virtual machine (VM) within the compute service of a cloud account to evade defenses. Creating a new instance may allow an adversary to bypass firewall rules and permissions that exist on instances currently residing within an account. An adversary may Create Snapshot (T1578.001) of one or more volumes in an account, create a new instance, mount the snapshots, and then apply a less restrictive security policy to collect Data from Local System (T1005) or for Remote Data Staging (T1074.002).

Creating a new instance may also allow an adversary to carry out malicious activity within an environment without affecting the execution of current running instances.

## Parent Technique
- Modify Cloud Compute Infrastructure (T1578)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- LAPSUS$ (G1004)
- Scattered Spider (G1015)

## Mitigations
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
The creation of a new instance or VM is a common part of operations within many cloud environments. Events should then not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities. For example, the creation of an instance by a new user account or the unexpected creation of one or more snapshots followed by the creation of an instance may indicate suspicious activity.

In AWS, CloudTrail logs capture the creation of an instance in the ```RunInstances``` event, and in Azure the creation of a VM may be captured in Azure activity logs. Google's Admin Activity audit logs within their Cloud Audit logs can be used to detect the usage of ```gcloud compute instances create``` to create a VM.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Instance: Instance Creation (DS0030): 
The creation of a new instance or VM is a common part of operations within many cloud environments. Events should then not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities. For example, the creation of an instance by a new user account or the unexpected creation of one or more snapshots followed by the creation of an instance may indicate suspicious activity.

In AWS, CloudTrail logs capture the creation of an instance in the RunInstances event, and in Azure the creation of a VM may be captured in Azure activity logs.  Google's Admin Activity audit logs within their Cloud Audit logs can be used to detect the usage of gcloud compute instances create to create a VM.

Analytic 1 - Operations performed by unexpected initiators, unusual resource names, frequent modifications

``` index="azure_activity_logs" (OperationName="Create or Update Virtual Machine" OR OperationName="Create or Update Virtual Machine Extension")
| stats count by InitiatorName, Resource
| where Resource LIKE "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines*" AND (Status!="Succeeded" OR InitiatorName!="expected_initiator")
| sort by Time``` 

#### Instance: Instance Metadata (DS0030): 
Periodically baseline instances to identify malicious modifications or additions.

