# Services File Permissions Weakness (T1574.010)

## Description
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by services. Adversaries may use flaws in the permissions of Windows services to replace the binary that is executed upon service start. These service processes may automatically execute specific binaries as part of their functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on the file system directory containing a target binary, or permissions on the binary itself are improperly set, then the target binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-level permissions and executed by the original process. If the original process and thread are running under a higher permissions level, then the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions, which could include SYSTEM.

Adversaries may use this technique to replace legitimate binaries with malicious ones as a means of executing code at a higher permissions level. If the executing process is set to run at a specific time or during a certain event (e.g., system bootup) then this technique can also be used for persistence.

## Parent Technique
- Hijack Execution Flow (T1574)

## Tactics
- Persistence (TA0003)
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Control (M1052)

## Detection
Look for changes to binaries and service executables that may normally occur during software updates. If an executable is written, renamed, and/or moved to match an existing service executable, it could be detected and correlated with other suspicious behavior. Hashing of binaries and service executables could be used to detect replacement against historical data.

Look for abnormal process call trees from typical processes and services and for execution of other commands that could relate to Discovery or other adversary techniques. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for modification of binaries and service executables that do not occur during a regular software update or an update scheduled by the organization. Modification of files considers actions such as renaming and directory moving.

#### File: File Creation (DS0022): 
Monitor for creation of binaries and service executables that do not occur during a regular software update or an update scheduled by the organization. This behavior also considers files that are overwritten.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by services.

#### Service: Service Metadata (DS0019): 
Hashing of binaries and service executables could be used to detect replacement against historical data.

