# Non-Standard Port (T1571)

## Description
Adversaries may communicate using a protocol and port pairing that are typically not associated. For example, HTTPS over port 8088 or port 587 as opposed to the traditional port 443. Adversaries may make changes to the standard port used by a protocol to bypass filtering or muddle analysis/parsing of network data.

Adversaries may also make changes to victim systems to abuse non-standard ports. For example, Registry keys and other configuration settings can be used to modify protocol and port pairings.

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- WIRTE (G0090)
- Silence (G0091)
- RedEcho (G1042)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Velvet Ant (G1047)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- DarkVishnya (G0105)
- APT-C-36 (G0099)
- APT33 (G0064)
- Rocke (G0106)

## Mitigations
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)

## Detection
Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used. Analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data flows for unexpected patterns and metadata that may be indicative of a mismatch between protocol and utilized port.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used.

