# Encrypted Channel (T1573)

## Description
Adversaries may employ an encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traffic rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Despite the use of a secure algorithm, these implementations may be vulnerable to reverse engineering if secret keys are encoded and/or generated within malware samples/configuration files.

## Sub-techniques
- Symmetric Cryptography (T1573.001)
- Asymmetric Cryptography (T1573.002)

## Tactics
- Command and Control (TA0011)

## Related Groups
- Tropic Trooper (G0081)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- BITTER (G1002)
- APT29 (G0016)

## Mitigations
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- SSL/TLS Inspection (M1020)

## Detection
SSL/TLS inspection is one way of detecting command and control traffic within some encrypted communication channels. SSL/TLS inspection does come with certain risks that should be considered before implementing to avoid potential security issues such as incomplete certificate validation.

In general, analyze network data for uncommon data flows (e.g., a client sending significantly more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious. Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected protocol behavior for the port that is being used.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

