# Server (T1584.004)

## Description
Adversaries may compromise third-party servers that can be used during targeting. Use of servers allows an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize servers for various tasks, including for Command and Control. Instead of purchasing a Server (T1583.004) or Virtual Private Server (T1583.003), adversaries may compromise third-party servers in support of operations.

Adversaries may also compromise web servers to support watering hole operations, as in Drive-by Compromise (T1189), or email servers to support Phishing (T1566) operations.

## Parent Technique
- Compromise Infrastructure (T1584)

## Tactics
- Resource Development (TA0042)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Turla (G0010)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- APT16 (G0023)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Daggerfly (G1034)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)

## Mitigations
- Pre-compromise (M1056)

## Detection
Once adversaries have provisioned software on a compromised server (ex: for use as a command and control server), internet scans may reveal servers that adversaries have compromised. Consider looking for identifiable patterns such as services listening, certificates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2 software.

Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Internet Scan: Response Content (DS0035): 
Once adversaries have provisioned software on a compromised server (ex: for use as a command and control server), internet scans may reveal servers that adversaries have compromised. Consider looking for identifiable patterns such as services listening, certificates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2 software.

#### Internet Scan: Response Metadata (DS0035): 
Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.

