# Email Accounts (T1585.002)

## Description
Adversaries may create email accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use accounts created with email providers to further their operations, such as leveraging them to conduct Phishing for Information (T1598) or Phishing (T1566). Establishing email accounts may also allow adversaries to abuse free services – such as trial periods – to Acquire Infrastructure (T1583) for follow-on purposes.

Adversaries may also take steps to cultivate a persona around the email account, such as through use of Social Media Accounts (T1585.001), to increase the chance of success of follow-on behaviors. Created email accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure (ex: Domains (T1583.001)).

To decrease the chance of physically tying back operations to themselves, adversaries may make use of disposable email services. 

## Parent Technique
- Establish Accounts (T1585)

## Tactics
- Resource Development (TA0042)

## Related Groups
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Moonstone Sleet (G1036)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- Mustang Panda (G0129)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Star Blizzard (G1033)
- APT42 (G1044)
- CURIUM (G1012)
- Silent Librarian (G0122)
- EXOTIC LILY (G1011)
- APT1 (G0006)
- Wizard Spider (G0102)
- HEXANE (G1001)
- Indrik Spider (G0119)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)

## Mitigations
- Pre-compromise (M1056)

## Detection
Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access (ex: Phishing (T1566)).

