# Web Services (T1583.006)

## Description
Adversaries may register for web services that can be used during targeting. A variety of popular websites exist for adversaries to register for a web-based service that can be abused during later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service (T1102)), Exfiltration Over Web Service (T1567), or Phishing (T1566). Using common services, such as those offered by Google, GitHub, or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. By utilizing a web service, adversaries can make it difficult to physically tie back operations to them.

## Parent Technique
- Acquire Infrastructure (T1583)

## Tactics
- Resource Development (TA0042)

## Related Groups
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- Turla (G0010)
- ZIRCONIUM (G0128)
- APT17 (G0025)
- MuddyWater (G0069)
- APT28 (G0007)
- APT29 (G0016)
- FIN7 (G0046)
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Confucius (G0142)
- IndigoZebra (G0136)
- Saint Bear (G1031)
- POLONIUM (G1005)
- APT32 (G0050)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- TA578 (G1038)
- TA2541 (G1018)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- LazyScripter (G0140)

## Mitigations
- Pre-compromise (M1056)

## Detection
Once adversaries leverage the web service as infrastructure (ex: for command and control), it may be possible to look for unique characteristics associated with adversary software, if known.

Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service (T1102)) or Exfiltration Over Web Service (T1567).

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Internet Scan: Response Content (DS0035): 
Once adversaries leverage the web service as infrastructure (ex: for command and control), it may be possible to look for unique characteristics associated with adversary software, if known. Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service (T1102)) or Exfiltration Over Web Service (T1567).

