# Cloud Infrastructure Discovery (T1580)

## Description
An adversary may attempt to discover infrastructure and resources that are available within an infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environment. This includes compute service resources such as instances, virtual machines, and snapshots as well as resources of other services including the storage and database services.

Cloud providers offer methods such as APIs and commands issued through CLIs to serve information about infrastructure. For example, AWS provides a ```DescribeInstances``` API within the Amazon EC2 API that can return information about one or more instances within an account, the ```ListBuckets``` API that returns a list of all buckets owned by the authenticated sender of the request, the ```HeadBucket``` API to determine a bucket’s existence along with access permissions of the request sender, or the ```GetPublicAccessBlock``` API to retrieve access block configuration for a bucket. Similarly, GCP's Cloud SDK CLI provides the ```gcloud compute instances list``` command to list all Google Compute Engine instances in a project , and Azure's CLI command ```az vm list``` lists details of virtual machines. In addition to API commands, adversaries can utilize open source tools to discover cloud storage infrastructure through Wordlist Scanning (T1595.003).

An adversary may enumerate resources using a compromised user's access keys to determine which are available to that user. The discovery of these available resources may help adversaries determine their next steps in the Cloud environment, such as establishing Persistence.An adversary may also use this information to change the configuration to make the bucket publicly accessible, allowing data to be accessed without authentication. Adversaries have also may use infrastructure discovery APIs such as ```DescribeDBInstances``` to determine size, owner, permissions, and network ACLs of database resources.  Adversaries can use this information to determine the potential value of databases and discover the requirements to access them. Unlike in Cloud Service Discovery (T1526), this technique focuses on the discovery of components of the provided services rather than the services themselves.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Scattered Spider (G1015)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Establish centralized logging for the activity of cloud infrastructure components. Monitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather information about cloud infrastructure, including the use of discovery API calls by new or unexpected users and enumerations from unknown or malicious IP addresses. To reduce false positives, valid change management procedures could introduce a known identifier that is logged with the change (e.g., tag or header) if supported by the cloud provider, to help distinguish valid, expected actions from malicious ones.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Instance: Instance Enumeration (DS0030): 
Monitor cloud logs for API calls and other potentially unusual activity related to cloud instance enumeration. Discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

#### Cloud Storage: Cloud Storage Enumeration (DS0010): 
Monitor cloud logs for API calls and other potentially unusual activity related to cloud data object storage enumeration. Discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

#### Volume: Volume Enumeration (DS0034): 
Monitor cloud logs for API calls and other potentially unusual activity related to block object storage enumeration. Discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

#### Snapshot: Snapshot Enumeration (DS0020): 
Monitor cloud logs for API calls and other potentially unusual activity related to snapshot enumeration. Discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Collection and Exfiltration, based on the information obtained.

