# Server (T1583.004)

## Description
Adversaries may buy, lease, rent, or obtain physical servers that can be used during targeting. Use of servers allows an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize servers for various tasks, such as watering hole operations in Drive-by Compromise (T1189), enabling Phishing (T1566) operations, or facilitating Command and Control (TA0011). Instead of compromising a third-party Server (T1584.004) or renting a Virtual Private Server (T1583.003), adversaries may opt to configure and run their own servers in support of operations. Free trial periods of cloud servers may also be abused. 

Adversaries may only need a lightweight setup if most of their activities will take place using online infrastructure. Or, they may need to build extensive infrastructure if they want to test, communicate, and control other aspects of their activities on their own systems.

## Parent Technique
- Acquire Infrastructure (T1583)

## Tactics
- Resource Development (TA0042)

## Related Groups
- GALLIUM (G0093)
- Kimsuky (G0094)
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)
- Mustard Tempest (G1020)
- CURIUM (G1012)

## Mitigations
- Pre-compromise (M1056)

## Detection
Once adversaries have provisioned a server (ex: for use as a command and control server), internet scans may reveal servers that adversaries have acquired. Consider looking for identifiable patterns such as services listening, certificates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2 software.

Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Internet Scan: Response Metadata (DS0035): 
Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.

#### Internet Scan: Response Content (DS0035): 
Once adversaries have provisioned a server (ex: for use as a command and control server), internet scans may reveal servers that adversaries have acquired. Consider looking for identifiable patterns such as services listening, certificates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2 software.

