# Botnet (T1583.005)

## Description
Adversaries may buy, lease, or rent a network of compromised systems that can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be instructed to perform coordinated tasks. Adversaries may purchase a subscription to use an existing botnet from a booter/stresser service. 

Internet-facing edge devices and related network appliances that are end-of-life (EOL) and unsupported by their manufacturers are commonly acquired for botnet activities. Adversaries may lease operational relay box (ORB) networks – consisting of virtual private servers (VPS), small office/home office (SOHO) routers, or Internet of Things (IoT) devices – to serve as a botnet. 

With a botnet at their disposal, adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale Phishing (T1566) or Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS). Acquired botnets may also be used to support Command and Control activity, such as Hide Infrastructure (T1665) through an established Proxy (T1090) network.



## Parent Technique
- Acquire Infrastructure (T1583)

## Tactics
- Resource Development (TA0042)

## Related Groups
- HAFNIUM (G0125)
- APT5 (G1023)
- Ke3chang (G0004)

## Mitigations
- Pre-compromise (M1056)

## Detection
Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior difficult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Phishing (T1566), Endpoint Denial of Service (T1499), or Network Denial of Service (T1498).

