# Network Address Translation Traversal (T1599.001)

## Description
Adversaries may bridge network boundaries by modifying a network device’s Network Address Translation (NAT) configuration. Malicious modifications to NAT may enable an adversary to bypass restrictions on traffic routing that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted networks.

Network devices such as routers and firewalls that connect multiple networks together may implement NAT during the process of passing packets between networks. When performing NAT, the network device will rewrite the source and/or destination addresses of the IP address header. Some network designs require NAT for the packets to cross the border device.  A typical example of this is environments where internal networks make use of non-Internet routable addresses.

When an adversary gains control of a network boundary device, they can either leverage existing NAT configurations to send traffic between two separated networks, or they can implement NAT configurations of their own design.  In the case of network designs that require NAT to function, this enables the adversary to overcome inherent routing limitations that would normally prevent them from accessing protected systems behind the border device.  In the case of network designs that do not require NAT, address translation can be used by adversaries to obscure their activities, as changing the addresses of packets that traverse a network boundary device can make monitoring data transmissions more challenging for defenders.  

Adversaries may use Patch System Image (T1601.001) to change the operating system of a network device, implementing their own custom NAT mechanisms to further obscure their activities

## Parent Technique
- Network Boundary Bridging (T1599)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Credential Access Protection (M1043)
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)

## Detection
Consider monitoring network traffic on both interfaces of border network devices.  Compare packets transmitted by the device between networks to look for signs of NAT being implemented.  Packets which have their IP addresses changed should still have the same size and contents in the data encapsulated beyond Layer 3.  In some cases, Port Address Translation (PAT) may also be used by an adversary.

Monitor the border network device’s configuration to determine if any unintended NAT rules have been added without authorization.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

