# Network Boundary Bridging (T1599)

## Description
Adversaries may bridge network boundaries by compromising perimeter network devices or internal devices responsible for network segmentation. Breaching these devices may enable an adversary to bypass restrictions on traffic routing that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted networks.

Devices such as routers and firewalls can be used to create boundaries between trusted and untrusted networks.  They achieve this by restricting traffic types to enforce organizational policy in an attempt to reduce the risk inherent in such connections.  Restriction of traffic can be achieved by prohibiting IP addresses, layer 4 protocol ports, or through deep packet inspection to identify applications.  To participate with the rest of the network, these devices can be directly addressable or transparent, but their mode of operation has no bearing on how the adversary can bypass them when compromised.

When an adversary takes control of such a boundary device, they can bypass its policy enforcement to pass normally prohibited traffic across the trust boundary between the two separated networks without hinderance.  By achieving sufficient rights on the device, an adversary can reconfigure the device to allow the traffic they want, allowing them to then further achieve goals such as command and control via Multi-hop Proxy (T1090.003) or exfiltration of data via Traffic Duplication (T1020.001). Adversaries may also target internal devices responsible for network segmentation and abuse these in conjunction with Internal Proxy (T1090.001) to achieve the same goals.  In the cases where a border device separates two separate organizations, the adversary can also facilitate lateral movement into new victim environments.

## Sub-techniques
- Network Address Translation Traversal (T1599.001)

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- APT41 (G0096)

## Mitigations
- Multi-factor Authentication (M1032)
- Password Policies (M1027)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)
- Credential Access Protection (M1043)

## Detection
Consider monitoring network traffic on both interfaces of border network devices with out-of-band packet capture or network flow data, using a different device than the one in question.  Look for traffic that should be prohibited by the intended network traffic policy enforcement for the border network device.

Monitor the border network device’s configuration to validate that the policy enforcement sections are what was intended.  Look for rules that are less restrictive, or that allow specific traffic types that were not previously authorized.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

