# Vulnerability Scanning (T1595.002)

## Description
Adversaries may scan victims for vulnerabilities that can be used during targeting. Vulnerability scans typically check if the configuration of a target host/application (ex: software and version) potentially aligns with the target of a specific exploit the adversary may seek to use.

These scans may also include more broad attempts to Gather Victim Host Information (T1592) that can be used to identify more commonly known, exploitable vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scans typically harvest running software and version numbers via server banners, listening ports, or other network artifacts. Information from these scans may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains (T1593) or Search Open Technical Databases (T1596)), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities (T1587) or Obtain Capabilities (T1588)), and/or initial access (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application (T1190)).

## Parent Technique
- Active Scanning (T1595)

## Tactics
- Reconnaissance (TA0043)

## Related Groups
- Sandworm Team (G0034)
- Volatile Cedar (G0123)
- Leviathan (G0065)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- APT41 (G0096)
- TeamTNT (G0139)
- APT28 (G0007)
- Magic Hound (G0059)
- APT29 (G0016)
- Winter Vivern (G1035)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)
- Dragonfly (G0035)
- Earth Lusca (G1006)

## Mitigations
- Pre-compromise (M1056)

## Detection
Monitor for suspicious network traffic that could be indicative of scanning, such as large quantities originating from a single source (especially if the source is known to be associated with an adversary/botnet). Analyzing web metadata may also reveal artifacts that can be attributed to potentially malicious activity, such as referer or user-agent string HTTP/S fields.

Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders.

Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor network data for uncommon data flows. Processes utilizing the network that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.

