# Container Administration Command (T1609)

## Description
Adversaries may abuse a container administration service to execute commands within a container. A container administration service such as the Docker daemon, the Kubernetes API server, or the kubelet may allow remote management of containers within an environment.

In Docker, adversaries may specify an entrypoint during container deployment that executes a script or command, or they may use a command such as ```docker exec``` to execute a command within a running container. In Kubernetes, if an adversary has sufficient permissions, they may gain remote execution in a container in the cluster via interaction with the Kubernetes API server, the kubelet, or by running a command such as ```kubectl exec```.

## Tactics
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)

## Detection
Container administration service activities and executed commands can be captured through logging of process execution with command-line arguments on the container and the underlying host. In Docker, the daemon log provides insight into events at the daemon and container service level. Kubernetes system component logs may also detect activities running in and out of containers in the cluster. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor command execution within containers to detect suspicious activity. Commands executed via Docker (```docker exec```) or Kubernetes (```kubectl exec```) should be captured along with relevant metadata.

Analytic 1 -  Unusual command executions in container services

```sourcetype=docker:daemon OR sourcetype=kubernetes:apiserver
| search command IN ("docker exec", "kubectl exec")
```

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Track the creation of new processes within a container environment, which could indicate suspicious activity initiated via the Docker daemon or Kubernetes API server.

Analytic 1 - Unusual process creation within containers

```sourcetype=docker:daemon OR sourcetype=kubernetes:container
| search action="start" OR action="exec"
```

