# SNMP (MIB Dump) (T1602.001)

## Description
Adversaries may target the Management Information Base (MIB) to collect and/or mine valuable information in a network managed using Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).

The MIB is a configuration repository that stores variable information accessible via SNMP in the form of object identifiers (OID). Each OID identifies a variable that can be read or set and permits active management tasks, such as configuration changes, through remote modification of these variables. SNMP can give administrators great insight in their systems, such as, system information, description of hardware, physical location, and software packages. The MIB may also contain device operational information, including running configuration, routing table, and interface details.

Adversaries may use SNMP queries to collect MIB content directly from SNMP-managed devices in order to collect network information that allows the adversary to build network maps and facilitate future targeted exploitation. 

## Parent Technique
- Data from Configuration Repository (T1602)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Mitigations
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Update Software (M1051)
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)

## Detection
Identify network traffic sent or received by untrusted hosts or networks that expose MIB content or use unauthorized protocols.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts or uncommon data flows. Consider analyzing packet contents to detect application layer protocols, leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traffic, that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows(e.g. snmp traffic originating from unauthorized or untrusted hosts, signature detection for strings mapped to device configuration(s), and anomolies in snmp request(s))

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flow (e.g. snmp traffic originating from unauthorized or untrusted hosts, signature detection for strings mapped to device configuration(s), and anomolies in snmp request(s))

