# Forge Web Credentials (T1606)

## Description
Adversaries may forge credential materials that can be used to gain access to web applications or Internet services. Web applications and services (hosted in cloud SaaS environments or on-premise servers) often use session cookies, tokens, or other materials to authenticate and authorize user access.

Adversaries may generate these credential materials in order to gain access to web resources. This differs from Steal Web Session Cookie (T1539), Steal Application Access Token (T1528), and other similar behaviors in that the credentials are new and forged by the adversary, rather than stolen or intercepted from legitimate users.

The generation of web credentials often requires secret values, such as passwords, Private Keys (T1552.004), or other cryptographic seed values. Adversaries may also forge tokens by taking advantage of features such as the `AssumeRole` and `GetFederationToken` APIs in AWS, which allow users to request temporary security credentials (i.e., Temporary Elevated Cloud Access (T1548.005)), or the `zmprov gdpak` command in Zimbra, which generates a pre-authentication key that can be used to generate tokens for any user in the domain.

Once forged, adversaries may use these web credentials to access resources (ex: Use Alternate Authentication Material (T1550)), which may bypass multi-factor and other authentication protection mechanisms.  

## Sub-techniques
- SAML Tokens (T1606.002)
- Web Cookies (T1606.001)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Mitigations
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection
Monitor for anomalous authentication activity, such as logons or other user session activity associated with unknown accounts. Monitor for unexpected and abnormal access to resources, including access of websites and cloud-based applications by the same user in different locations or by different systems that do not match expected configurations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Web Credential: Web Credential Usage (DS0006): 
Monitor for the use of Access Tokens to access services such as Email that were created using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 1202 events in the domain.

#### Web Credential: Web Credential Creation (DS0006): 
Monitor for creation of access tokens using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 4769 and 1200 events in the domain. Additionally, detect on unusual API calls to generate access tokens, such as `sts:GetFederationToken` in AWS.

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for anomalous authentication activity, such as logons or other user session activity associated with unknown accounts and/or using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 4769 and 1200 events in the domain.. Monitor for unexpected and abnormal access to resources, including access of websites and cloud-based applications by the same user in different locations or by different systems that do not match expected configurations. These logins may occur on any on-premises resources as well as from any cloud environment that trusts the credentials.

