# Network Device Configuration Dump (T1602.002)

## Description
Adversaries may access network configuration files to collect sensitive data about the device and the network. The network configuration is a file containing parameters that determine the operation of the device. The device typically stores an in-memory copy of the configuration while operating, and a separate configuration on non-volatile storage to load after device reset. Adversaries can inspect the configuration files to reveal information about the target network and its layout, the network device and its software, or identifying legitimate accounts and credentials for later use.

Adversaries can use common management tools and protocols, such as Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) and Smart Install (SMI), to access network configuration files. These tools may be used to query specific data from a configuration repository or configure the device to export the configuration for later analysis. 

## Parent Technique
- Data from Configuration Repository (T1602)

## Tactics
- Collection (TA0009)

## Related Groups
- Salt Typhoon (G1045)

## Mitigations
- Encrypt Sensitive Information (M1041)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Network Intrusion Prevention (M1031)
- Software Configuration (M1054)
- Filter Network Traffic (M1037)
- Update Software (M1051)

## Detection
Identify network traffic sent or received by untrusted hosts or networks. Configure signatures to identify strings that may be found in a network device configuration.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted hosts or uncommon data flows. Consider analyzing packet contents to detect application layer protocols, leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traffic, that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g. unauthorized, gratuitous, or anomalous traffic patterns attempting to access network configuration content)

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g. unauthorized, gratuitous, or anomalous traffic patterns attempting to access network configuration content)

