# SAML Tokens (T1606.002)

## Description
An adversary may forge SAML tokens with any permissions claims and lifetimes if they possess a valid SAML token-signing certificate. The default lifetime of a SAML token is one hour, but the validity period can be specified in the ```NotOnOrAfter``` value of the ```conditions ...``` element in a token. This value can be changed using the ```AccessTokenLifetime``` in a ```LifetimeTokenPolicy```. Forged SAML tokens enable adversaries to authenticate across services that use SAML 2.0 as an SSO (single sign-on) mechanism.

An adversary may utilize Private Keys (T1552.004) to compromise an organization's token-signing certificate to create forged SAML tokens. If the adversary has sufficient permissions to establish a new federation trust with their own Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) server, they may instead generate their own trusted token-signing certificate. This differs from Steal Application Access Token (T1528) and other similar behaviors in that the tokens are new and forged by the adversary, rather than stolen or intercepted from legitimate users.

An adversary may gain administrative Entra ID privileges if a SAML token is forged which claims to represent a highly privileged account. This may lead to Use Alternate Authentication Material (T1550), which may bypass multi-factor and other authentication protection mechanisms.

## Parent Technique
- Forge Web Credentials (T1606)

## Tactics
- Credential Access (TA0006)

## Mitigations
- Active Directory Configuration (M1015)
- Audit (M1047)
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)

## Detection
This technique may be difficult to detect as SAML tokens are signed by a trusted certificate. The forging process may not be detectable since it is likely to happen outside of a defender's visibility, but subsequent usage of the forged token may be seen. Monitor for anomalous logins using SAML tokens created by a compromised or adversary generated token-signing certificate. These logins may occur on any on-premises resources as well as from any cloud environment that trusts the certificate. Search for logins to service providers using SAML SSO which do not have corresponding 4769, 1200, and 1202 events in the Domain.

Consider modifying SAML responses to include custom elements for each service provider. Monitor these custom elements in service provider access logs to detect any anomalous requests.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Web Credential: Web Credential Usage (DS0006): 
Monitor for the use of access tokens to access services such as email that were created using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 1202 events (i.e. “The Federation Service validated a new credential”) in the domain.

#### Web Credential: Web Credential Creation (DS0006): 
Monitor for creation of access tokens using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 4769 and 1200 events in the domain.

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Creation (DS0028): 
Monitor for logins using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 4769 and 1200 events in the domain. These logins may occur on any on-premises resources as well as from any cloud environment that trusts the certificate.

#### User Account: User Account Authentication (DS0002): 
Monitor for user authentication attempts, when requesting access tokens to services, that failed because of Conditional Access Policies (CAP). Some SAML tokens features, such as the location of a user, may not be as easy to claim.

#### Logon Session: Logon Session Metadata (DS0028): 
Consider modifying SAML responses to include custom elements for each service provider. Monitor these custom elements in service provider access logs to detect any anomalous requests.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
This search looks for arguments to certutil.exe indicating the manipulation or extraction of Certificate. This certificate can then be used to sign new authentication tokens specially inside Federated environments such as Windows ADFS.

Analytic 1 - Certutil.exe Certificate Extraction

``` (source="*WinEventLog:Microsoft-Windows-Sysmon/Operational" EventCode="1") OR (source="*WinEventLog:Security" EventCode="4688") AND Image= "C:\Windows\System32\certutil.exe" AND CommandLine= "* -exportPFX *") ```

