# Deploy Container (T1610)

## Description
Adversaries may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade defenses. In some cases, adversaries may deploy a new container to execute processes associated with a particular image or deployment, such as processes that execute or download malware. In others, an adversary may deploy a new container configured without network rules, user limitations, etc. to bypass existing defenses within the environment. In Kubernetes environments, an adversary may attempt to deploy a privileged or vulnerable container into a specific node in order to Escape to Host (T1611) and access other containers running on the node. 

Containers can be deployed by various means, such as via Docker's ```create``` and ```start``` APIs or via a web application such as the Kubernetes dashboard or Kubeflow.  In Kubernetes environments, containers may be deployed through workloads such as ReplicaSets or DaemonSets, which can allow containers to be deployed across multiple nodes. Adversaries may deploy containers based on retrieved or built malicious images or from benign images that download and execute malicious payloads at runtime.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)
- Execution (TA0002)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)
- Audit (M1047)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)

## Detection
Monitor for suspicious or unknown container images and pods in your environment. Deploy logging agents on Kubernetes nodes and retrieve logs from sidecar proxies for application pods to detect malicious activity at the cluster level. In Docker, the daemon log provides insight into remote API calls, including those that deploy containers. Logs for management services or applications used to deploy containers other than the native technologies themselves should also be monitored.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Container: Container Start (DS0032): 
Monitor for the start of containers, especially those not aligned with expected images or known administrative schedules.

Analytic 1 - Unexpected container starts

```sourcetype=docker:daemon OR sourcetype=kubernetes:event
| search action="start"
| where user NOT IN ("known_admins")
 ```

#### Application Log: Application Log Content (DS0015): 
Monitor application logs for any unexpected or suspicious container deployment activities through the management API or service-specific logs (e.g., Docker Daemon logs, Kubernetes event logs).

Analytic 1 - Container creation and start activities in Docker and Kubernetes

```sourcetype=docker:daemon OR sourcetype=kubernetes:event
| where action IN ("create", "start")
 ```

#### Pod: Pod Creation (DS0014): 
Monitor for newly constructed pods that may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade defenses.

#### Container: Container Creation (DS0032): 
Monitor container creation to detect suspicious or unknown images being deployed. Ensure that only authorized images are being used in the environment, especially in sensitive areas.

Analytic 1 - Creation of unexpected or unauthorized containers

```sourcetype=docker:daemon OR sourcetype=kubernetes:event
| search action="create"
| where image NOT IN ("known_images_list")
```

#### Pod: Pod Modification (DS0014): 
Monitor for changes made to pods for unexpected modifications to settings and/or control data that may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade defenses.

