# Build Image on Host (T1612)

## Description
Adversaries may build a container image directly on a host to bypass defenses that monitor for the retrieval of malicious images from a public registry. A remote ```build``` request may be sent to the Docker API that includes a Dockerfile that pulls a vanilla base image, such as alpine, from a public or local registry and then builds a custom image upon it.

An adversary may take advantage of that ```build``` API to build a custom image on the host that includes malware downloaded from their C2 server, and then they may utilize Deploy Container (T1610) using that custom image. If the base image is pulled from a public registry, defenses will likely not detect the image as malicious since it’s a vanilla image. If the base image already resides in a local registry, the pull may be considered even less suspicious since the image is already in the environment. 

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Limit Access to Resource Over Network (M1035)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Network Segmentation (M1030)
- Audit (M1047)

## Detection
Monitor for unexpected Docker image build requests to the Docker daemon on hosts in the environment. Additionally monitor for subsequent network communication with anomalous IPs that have never been seen before in the environment that indicate the download of malicious code.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Image: Image Creation (DS0007): 
Monitor for unexpected Docker image build requests to the Docker daemon on hosts in the environment.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor for network traffic associated with requests and/or downloads of container images, especially those that may be anomalous or known malicious.

#### Network Traffic: Network Connection Creation (DS0029): 
Monitor for established network communications with anomalous IPs that have never been seen before in the environment that may indicate the download of malicious code.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Flow (DS0029): 
Monitor for established network communications with anomalous IPs that have never been seen before in the environment that may indicate the download of malicious code.

