# System Location Discovery (T1614)

## Description

Adversaries may gather information in an attempt to calculate the geographical location of a victim host. Adversaries may use the information from System Location Discovery (T1614) during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts specific actions.

Adversaries may attempt to infer the location of a system using various system checks, such as time zone, keyboard layout, and/or language settings. Windows API functions such as ```GetLocaleInfoW``` can also be used to determine the locale of the host. In cloud environments, an instance's availability zone may also be discovered by accessing the instance metadata service from the instance.

Adversaries may also attempt to infer the location of a victim host using IP addressing, such as via online geolocation IP-lookup services.

## Sub-techniques
- System Language Discovery (T1614.001)

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- SideCopy (G1008)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities based on the information obtained.

Monitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system location information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API, such as calling ``` GetLocaleInfoW``` to gather information.

Monitor traffic flows to geo-location service provider sites, such as ip-api and ipinfo.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor newly executed processes that may gather information in an attempt to calculate the geographical location of a victim host.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API, such as calling ``` GetLocaleInfoW``` to gather information.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor executed commands and arguments that may gather information in an attempt to calculate the geographical location of a victim host.

