# Group Policy Discovery (T1615)

## Description
Adversaries may gather information on Group Policy settings to identify paths for privilege escalation, security measures applied within a domain, and to discover patterns in domain objects that can be manipulated or used to blend in the environment. Group Policy allows for centralized management of user and computer settings in Active Directory (AD). Group policy objects (GPOs) are containers for group policy settings made up of files stored within a predictable network path `\<DOMAIN>\SYSVOL\<DOMAIN>\Policies\`.

Adversaries may use commands such as ```gpresult``` or various publicly available PowerShell functions, such as ```Get-DomainGPO``` and ```Get-DomainGPOLocalGroup```, to gather information on Group Policy settings. Adversaries may use this information to shape follow-on behaviors, including determining potential attack paths within the target network as well as opportunities to manipulate Group Policy settings (i.e. Domain or Tenant Policy Modification (T1484)) for their benefit.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- Turla (G0010)

## Detection
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities based on the information obtained.

Monitor for suspicious use of ```gpresult```. Monitor for the use of PowerShell functions such as ```Get-DomainGPO``` and ```Get-DomainGPOLocalGroup``` and processes spawning with command-line arguments containing ```GPOLocalGroup```.

Monitor for abnormal LDAP queries with filters for ```groupPolicyContainer``` and high volumes of LDAP traffic to domain controllers. Windows Event ID 4661 can also be used to detect when a directory service has been accessed.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the file system when possible to determine their actions and intent. 

#### Active Directory: Active Directory Object Access (DS0026): 
Monitor for abnormal LDAP queries with filters for ```groupPolicyContainer``` and high volumes of LDAP traffic to domain controllers. Windows Event ID 4661 can also be used to detect when a directory service has been accessed.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes that may gather information on Group Policy settings to identify paths for privilege escalation, security measures applied within a domain, and to discover patterns in domain objects that can be manipulated or used to blend in the environment.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for suspicious use of ```gpresult```. Monitor for the use of PowerShell functions such as ```Get-DomainGPO``` and ```Get-DomainGPOLocalGroup``` and processes spawning with command-line arguments containing ```GPOLocalGroup```.

#### Network Traffic: Network Traffic Content (DS0029): 
Monitor and analyze traffic patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traffic flows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established flows, gratuitous or anomalous traffic patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traffic patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of files that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).

