# Escape to Host (T1611)

## Description
Adversaries may break out of a container or virtualized environment to gain access to the underlying host. This can allow an adversary access to other containerized or virtualized resources from the host level or to the host itself. In principle, containerized / virtualized resources should provide a clear separation of application functionality and be isolated from the host environment.

There are multiple ways an adversary may escape from a container to a host environment. Examples include creating a container configured to mount the host’s filesystem using the bind parameter, which allows the adversary to drop payloads and execute control utilities such as cron on the host; utilizing a privileged container to run commands or load a malicious kernel module on the underlying host; or abusing system calls such as `unshare` and `keyctl` to escalate privileges and steal secrets.

Additionally, an adversary may be able to exploit a compromised container with a mounted container management socket, such as `docker.sock`, to break out of the container via a Container Administration Command (T1609). Adversaries may also escape via Exploitation for Privilege Escalation (T1068), such as exploiting vulnerabilities in global symbolic links in order to access the root directory of a host machine.

In ESXi environments, an adversary may exploit a vulnerability in order to escape from a virtual machine into the hypervisor.

Gaining access to the host may provide the adversary with the opportunity to achieve follow-on objectives, such as establishing persistence, moving laterally within the environment, accessing other containers or virtual machines running on the host, or setting up a command and control channel on the host.

## Tactics
- Privilege Escalation (TA0004)

## Related Groups
- TeamTNT (G0139)

## Mitigations
- Update Software (M1051)
- Execution Prevention (M1038)
- Application Isolation and Sandboxing (M1048)
- Privileged Account Management (M1026)
- Disable or Remove Feature or Program (M1042)

## Detection
Monitor for the deployment of suspicious or unknown container images and pods in your environment, particularly containers running as root. Additionally, monitor for unexpected usage of syscalls such as ```mount``` (as well as resulting process activity) that may indicate an attempt to escape from a privileged container to host. In Kubernetes, monitor for cluster-level events associated with changing containers' volume configurations.

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for process activity (such as unexpected processes spawning outside a container and/or on a host) that might indicate an attempt to escape from a privileged container to host. 

#### Kernel: Kernel Module Load (DS0008): 
Monitor for the installation of kernel modules that could be abused to escape containers on a host.

#### Container: Container Creation (DS0032): 
Monitor for the deployment of suspicious or unknown container images and pods in your environment, particularly containers running as root. 

#### Volume: Volume Modification (DS0034): 
Monitor cluster-level (Kubernetes) data and events associated with changing containers' volume configurations.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for unexpected usage of syscalls such as `mount` that may indicate an attempt to escape from a privileged container to host. 

