# Reflective Code Loading (T1620)

## Description
Adversaries may reflectively load code into a process in order to conceal the execution of malicious payloads. Reflective loading involves allocating then executing payloads directly within the memory of the process, vice creating a thread or process backed by a file path on disk (e.g., Shared Modules (T1129)).

Reflectively loaded payloads may be compiled binaries, anonymous files (only present in RAM), or just snubs of fileless executable code (ex: position-independent shellcode). For example, the `Assembly.Load()` method executed by PowerShell (T1059.001) may be abused to load raw code into the running process.

Reflective code injection is very similar to Process Injection (T1055) except that the “injection” loads code into the processes’ own memory instead of that of a separate process. Reflective loading may evade process-based detections since the execution of the arbitrary code may be masked within a legitimate or otherwise benign process. Reflectively loading payloads directly into memory may also avoid creating files or other artifacts on disk, while also enabling malware to keep these payloads encrypted (or otherwise obfuscated) until execution.

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Related Groups
- Lazarus Group (G0032)
- Kimsuky (G0094)

## Detection
Monitor for code artifacts associated with reflectively loading code, such as the abuse of .NET functions such as ```Assembly.Load()``` and Native API (T1106) functions such as ```CreateThread()```, ```memfd_create()```, ```execve()```, and/or ```execveat()```.

Monitor for artifacts of abnormal process execution. For example, a common signature related to reflective code loading on Windows is mechanisms related to the .NET Common Language Runtime (CLR) -- such as mscor.dll, mscoree.dll, and clr.dll -- loading into abnormal processes (such as notepad.exe). Similarly, AMSI / ETW traces can be used to identify signs of arbitrary code execution from within the memory of potentially compromised processes.

Analyze process behavior to determine if a process is performing actions it usually does not, such as opening network connections, reading files, or other suspicious actions that could relate to post-compromise behavior. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Module: Module Load (DS0011): 
Monitor for artifacts of abnormal process execution. For example, a common signature related to reflective code loading on Windows is mechanisms related to the .NET Common Language Runtime (CLR) -- such as mscor.dll, mscoree.dll, and clr.dll -- loading into abnormal processes (such as notepad.exe)

#### Script: Script Execution (DS0012): 
Similarly, AMSI / ETW traces can be used to identify signs of arbitrary code execution from within the memory of potentially compromised processes.

#### Process: OS API Execution (DS0009): 
Monitor for code artifacts associated with reflectively loading code, such as the abuse of .NET functions such as ```Assembly.Load()``` and Native API (T1106) functions such as ```CreateThread()```, ```memfd_create()```, ```execve()```, and/or ```execveat()```.

