# Plist File Modification (T1647)

## Description
Adversaries may modify property list files (plist files) to enable other malicious activity, while also potentially evading and bypassing system defenses. macOS applications use plist files, such as the ```info.plist``` file, to store properties and configuration settings that inform the operating system how to handle the application at runtime. Plist files are structured metadata in key-value pairs formatted in XML based on Apple's Core Foundation DTD. Plist files can be saved in text or binary format. 

Adversaries can modify key-value pairs in plist files to influence system behaviors, such as hiding the execution of an application (i.e. Hidden Window (T1564.003)) or running additional commands for persistence (ex: Launch Agent (T1543.001)/Launch Daemon (T1543.004) or Re-opened Applications (T1547.007)).

For example, adversaries can add a malicious application path to the `~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.dock.plist` file, which controls apps that appear in the Dock. Adversaries can also modify the ```LSUIElement``` key in an application’s ```info.plist``` file  to run the app in the background. Adversaries can also insert key-value pairs to insert environment variables, such as ```LSEnvironment```, to enable persistence via Dynamic Linker Hijacking (T1574.006).

## Tactics
- Defense Evasion (TA0005)

## Mitigations
- Application Developer Guidance (M1013)

## Detection
Monitor for common command-line editors used to modify plist files located in auto-run locations, such as ```\~/LaunchAgents```, ```~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm```, and an application's ```Info.plist```. 

Monitor for plist file modification immediately followed by code execution from ```\~/Library/Scripts``` and ```~/Library/Preferences```. Also, monitor for significant changes to any path pointers in a modified plist.

Identify new services executed from plist modified in the previous user's session. 

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for commands with arguments (such as opening common command-line editors) used to modify plist files, especially commonly abused files such as those in ```\~/LaunchAgents```, ```\~/Library/Application Support/com.apple.backgroundtaskmanagementagent/backgrounditems.btm```, and an application's ```Info.plist```.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for newly executed processes with arguments that can modify property list (plist) files.

#### File: File Modification (DS0022): 
Monitor for plist file modification, especially if immediately followed by other suspicious events such as code execution from ```\~/Library/Scripts``` or ```\~/Library/Preferences```. Also, monitor for significant changes to any path pointers in a modified plist.

