# Log Enumeration (T1654)

## Description
Adversaries may enumerate system and service logs to find useful data. These logs may highlight various types of valuable insights for an adversary, such as user authentication records (Account Discovery (T1087)), security or vulnerable software (Software Discovery (T1518)), or hosts within a compromised network (Remote System Discovery (T1018)).

Host binaries may be leveraged to collect system logs. Examples include using `wevtutil.exe` or PowerShell (T1059.001) on Windows to access and/or export security event information. In cloud environments, adversaries may leverage utilities such as the Azure VM Agent’s `CollectGuestLogs.exe` to collect security logs from cloud hosted infrastructure.

Adversaries may also target centralized logging infrastructure such as SIEMs. Logs may also be bulk exported and sent to adversary-controlled infrastructure for offline analysis.

In addition to gaining a better understanding of the environment, adversaries may also monitor logs in real time to track incident response procedures. This may allow them to adjust their techniques in order to maintain persistence or evade defenses.

## Tactics
- Discovery (TA0007)

## Related Groups
- APT5 (G1023)
- Ember Bear (G1003)
- Volt Typhoon (G1017)
- Aquatic Panda (G0143)

## Mitigations
- User Account Management (M1018)

## Detection

### Detailed Detection by Data Source/Component
#### File: File Access (DS0022): 
Monitor for access to system and service log files, especially from unexpected and abnormal users.

#### Command: Command Execution (DS0017): 
Monitor for the use of commands and arguments of utilities and other tools used to access and export logs.

#### Process: Process Creation (DS0009): 
Monitor for unexpected process activity associated with utilities that can access and export logs, such as `wevutil.exe` on Windows and `CollectGuestLogs.exe` on Azure hosted VMs.

